
1998 Statements on Cryptography
-------------------------------




|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Subject: | Harmful changes to Wassenaar Arrangement |
| Date: | Fri, 18 Dec 1998 |
| From: | The IAB |


The IAB and the IESG deplore the recent changes to the Wassenaar  

Arrangement ([http://www.wassenaar.org](https://www.wassenaar.org)) that further limit the  

availability of encryption software by including it in the Wassenaar  

agreement’s list of export controlled software (section 5.A.2.a.1  

of the list of dual-use goods, WA LIST 98 (1)). As discussed in  

RFC 1984, strong cryptography is essential to the security of the  

Internet; restrictions on its use or availability will leave us  

with a weak, vulnerable network, endanger the privacy of users and  

businesses, and slow the growth of electronic commerce.


The new restrictions will have a particularly deleterious effect  

on smaller countries, where there may not be enough of a local  

market or local expertise to support the development of indigenous  

cryptographic products. But everyone is adversely affected by  

this; the Internet is used world-wide, and even sites with access  

to strong cryptographic products must be able to talk to those who  

do not. This in turn endangers their own security.


We are happy that the key size limit has been raised in some cases  

from 40 bits to 64; however, this is still too small to provide  

real security. We estimate that after a modest capital investment,  

a company or criminal organization could crack a 64-bit cipher in less  

than a day for about $2500 per solution. This cost will only drop  

in coming years. A report released about three years ago suggested  

that 90-bit keys are the minimum for long-term security.


We are happy that the key size limit has been raised in some cases  

from 40 bits to 64; however, this is still too small to provide  

real security. We estimate that after a modest capital investment,  

a company or criminal organization could crack a 64-bit cipher in less  

than a day for about $2500 per solution. This cost will only drop  

in coming years. A report released about three years ago suggested  

that 90-bit keys are the minimum for long-term security.


 Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair) 
Fred Baker (IESG and IETF Chair)





---




|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Subject: | IAB statement on “private doorbell” encryption |
| Date: | Thu, 15 Oct 1998 |
| From: | The IAB |


The IAB and IESG are concerned by published descriptions of the  

“private doorbell” approach to resolving the encryption controversy.  

Essentially, the private doorbell requires that encryption and  

decryption be done at a gateway, rather than at an end system; see  

http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/779/govtaff/policy/paper/paper\_index.html  

for one description. This is in conflict with the “end-to-end”  

principle, a fundamental tenet of the Internet architecture. While  

there is certainly a place for gateway-based encryption in some  

circumstances, to require it in all places (and to exclude end-to-end  

encryption) would warp the protocol structure. Furthermore, it  

offers a significantly lower level of security, in that there is  

no longer protection against inside attacks, which by all accounts  

are a serious threat.


In addition, putting all security at the gateway ignores the need  

for different levels of protection in different situations. For  

some applications, encryption to the gateway may suffice. Others  

may require encryption and cryptographic authentication of the  

individual machine or even user. Should a strong encryption  

algorithm be used, or a very efficient one? It is very difficult  

to make these decisions anywhere but the end-system. But the  

“private doorbell” scheme would block deployment of such fine-grained  

protection.


