
Process for Publication of IAB RFCs
===================================



 March 2003




The following is a description of the process used by the IAB to publish IAB documents as RFCs.



1. The document is determined to be an IAB document by the IAB. (Notes <1> and <2>)
2. The IAB publishes an IAB draft (draft-iab-\*). Comments on the draft are reviewed and may be integrated into successive iterations of the draft. In addition to considering comments received on the draft, the IAB may elect to refer the document to individuals or groups and explicitly solicit comments as appropriate.
3. For documents intended to be published as BCPs, the document is passed to the IESG with a sponsoring AD. Unless otherwise nominated, the sponsoring AD is the IESG member who is currently liaision to the IAB. At this point the IESG publication process is used for the document’s further progress through the publication process.




 For documents intended to be Informational RFCs, the remainder of this process is followed.
4. The chair of the IAB issues an IETF-wide Call For Comment on the IETF Announce list. The comment period is normally no shorter than four weeks.
5. The document is added to the IESG reading list.
6. Comments received are considered for integration into the draft. The IAB shall determine whether the document is ready for publication based on the comments received, or whether another round of document editing and a further call for input is required.
7. The document is passed to the RFC editor for publication as an IAB document Informational RFC using the IAB submission process described in [[1](ref1)].


### Notes:


 1. There are a number of documents that are managed by this process, including:

+ documents that arise from consideration of an issue by the IAB and are authored by the IAB through a nominated editor.
+ documents that report on IAB activities, such as workshop reports.
+ documents that are not the outcome of an IETF Working Group effort that the IAB has determined would be of benefit to the IETF community to publish. Such document need not necessarily be authored or revised by the IAB.


2. The IAB does not publish Standards-track or Experimental RFCs.
 



### References:



[1] “RFC Editor Process”, A. Falk, November, 2002.  

<ftp://ftp.rfc-editor.org/in-notes/rfc-editor/rfc-editor-process.gif>






