

```

Subject: Re: 3ffe Space in ip6.arpa Date: Tue, 10 Dec 2002 From: Leslie Daigle, IAB Chair To: Ray Plzak, ARIN CC: Axel Pawlik, RIPE CC: Paul Wilson, APNIC CC: Raul Echeberria, LACNIC CC: Harald Alvestrand, IETF Chair


```

Ray,



The IAB met today, and we discussed this topic. We think it seems to be an eminently sensible approach to handling the transition situation, and encourage you to move forward with this particular exception to the provisions of RFC 3152.




Best regards,



Leslie Daigle.  

Chair, IAB.





---


*In response to:*


Leslie,


Under the provisions of RFC 3152 (Delegation of IP6.ARPA), the “Names within this zone are to be further delegated to the regional IP registries in accordance with the delegation of IPv6 address space to those registries.” It has been proposed that the management of the 6bone space be transferred to the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs).  

<http://www.arin.net/announcements/2002/20020820.html>



One of the reasons for this transfer is to allow the space allocated for 6bone purposes (3ffe) to be placed in the ip6.arpa zone. The closing date for the comment period for this proposal is 31 December 2002. Stakeholders in the RIR community have requested that the 3ffe space be placed in the ip6.arpa zone sooner than the implementation date of the transfer of the management of the 3ffe space to the RIRs. The RIRs are forwarding this request to you as it would be an action that is contrary to RFC 3152. If such a request was honored, the RIRs suggest that this inclusion of the 3ffe space in the ip6.arpa be set to expire by a date certain if the management of the 3ffe space is not transferred to the RIRs.


 Paul Wilson  

 Director General  

 APNIC  

    

 Raymond A. Plzak  

 President & CEO  

 ARIN  

    

 Raul Echeberria  

 Chief Executive Officer  

 LACNIC  

    

 Axel Pawlik  

 Managing Director  

RIPE NCC


