
IAB Instructions to the RIPE NCC Regarding operation of the domain e164.arpa (“ENUM”)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


August 2004




|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |  |
| 1. Instructions to the RIPE NCC |
|  | 1.1 | 
A request for a delegation is to be sent to the RIPE NCC, to an email address that the RIPE NCC will define [[3.1](31)]. The request is to follow a template that the RIPE NCC will create. [[3.2](32)].
 |
|  | 1.2 |  The RIPE NCC will then acknowledge the request to the sender.
 |
|  | 1.3 | The RIPE NCC will then announce the existence of the application in all of the following three ways:
 |
|  | 1.3.1 |  |  On a public Mailing List [[3.3](33)] that the RIPE NCC will define.
 |
|  | 
 1.3.2 |  |  On a Webpage [[3.4](34)] that the RIPE NCC will define.
  |
|  | 
 1.3.3 |  |  Via electronic mail to ITU-T TSB [[3.5](35)].
 |
|  | 
 1.4 |  The RIPE NCC will then track any comments about the request during a waiting period. This waiting period is sixty (60) days.
 |
|  | 
 1.4.1 |  |  If ITU-T TSB explicitly authenticates a request during the waiting period, the domain is delegated even though the 60 day period has not ended.
 |
|  | 
 1.4.2 |  |  If ITU-T TSB does not object, and does not inform the RIPE NCC of the objection during the waiting period, the domain is delegated according to the request.
 |
|  | 
 1.4.3 |  |  No delegation will be performed if ITU-T TSB objects within the sixty (60) day waiting period.
 |
|  | 
 1.5 |  Anyone who has concerns about the delegation should contact the RIPE NCC [[3.1](31)] or ITU-T TSB. If comments come to the RIPE NCC on the proposed delegation, the RIPE NCC will forward the comments to ITU-T TSB [[3.5](35)]. The comments, the dates they are received by the RIPE NCC, as well as the forwarding of the comments by the RIPE NCC to ITU-T TSB are all made public.
 |
|  | 
 1.6 |  All communication regarding the application for a specific delegation is to be publicly archived.
 |
|  |
| 2. Notes |
|  | 
 2.1 |  In its capacity of IESG-designated expert for ENUM, as specified in [RFC 2916](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2916.txt), the RIPE NCC will review the submission for completeness according to the template. If it is not complete, the RIPE NCC will notify the sender of that fact and request that it be completed. If the sender does not respond within two weeks, the incomplete application will be forwarded to ITU-T TSB, as specified below, with a notation that the application is incomplete. Incomplete applications will require an affirmative indication from ITU-T TSB that the registration should occur in order for delegation to occur; the 60 day waiting period will not apply.
 |
|  | 
 2.2 |  Given that different information will be requested by RIPE NCC (technical) and ITU-T TSB (administrative), it is recommended that the applicant send the request both to ITU-T TSB and the RIPE NCC.
 |
|  | 
 2.3 |  The ITU-T TSB acts on requests according to methods of its choosing. If ITU-T TSB determines that the domain ([see (1.6)](16)) should not be delegated, it must send notice of that determination to the RIPE NCC within the 60 day period.
 |
|  | 
 2.4 |  ITU-T TSB can at any point directly instruct the RIPE NCC to delegate any E.164 Country code (CC). The format of the instruction from ITU-T TSB must be in a format specified by the RIPE NCC.
 |
|  | 
2.5 |  If more than one request arrives for the same E.164 CC before the delegation is made, the second request is considered a comment on the first one, and the RIPE NCC will forward that comment to ITU-T TSB.
 |
|  | 
 2.6 |  If a request comes in for a CC which is already delegated, the second request will be forwarded to ITU-T TSB. ITU-T TSB may authenticate an instruction from the E.164 resource assignee to RIPE NCC to revoke the original delegation, to redelegate to another party, or to perform no action. The RIPE NCC will take no action (other than forwarding the request to ITU-T TSB) until and unless such instructions are authenticated by ITU-T TSB. (This should minimize operational instability due to requests that might not be approved by ITU-T TSB.)
 |
|  | 
 2.7 |  Any changes referred to in ([2.6](26)) requested by the ITU-T TSB will be implemented by the RIPE NCC within 60 days of reception of the request by the RIPE NCC.
 |
|  | 
 2.8 |  This document instructs the RIPE NCC in the handling of E.164 CC delegations. For each request, the RIPE NCC will ask ITU TSB to supply confirmation that the requested delegation is in fact an E.164 CC.
 |
|  | 
 2.9 |  In the case that a request is made for a domain that is not a valid CC, RIPE NCC will not make the delegation under the terms of these instructions. RIPE NCC will inform ITU-T TSB and the applicant that it will not proceed with the requested delegation, as the object is not recognised by the ITU-T TSB as a CC.
 |
|  | 
 2.10 |  RIPE NCC may accept a proposal to operate the delegated domain, but this will be undertaken as a separate business activity that is outside the scope of this agreement with the IAB.
 |
|  |
| 3. Summary List of Actions required by the RIPE NCC before delegations can be made |
|  | 
 3.1 |  Set up an email address to which delegation applications and comments are to be sent.
 |
|  |  3.2 |  Define the template that is to be filled out by the applicant.
 |
|  | 
 3.3 |  Set up a mailing list with archiving and automatic subscription capabilities where the RIPE NCC is to send announcements to. Anyone is to be able to subscribe to this mailing list, but posting is restricted.
 |
|  | 
 3.4 |  Set up a web-page with a URI which will be as long lived as possible so direct references can be made to the URI of the page itself.
 |
|  | 
 3.5 |  In communication with ITU-T TSB Director agree on the email address to which notifications to ITU-T TSB will be sent.
 |


