

```
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 2004 
To: Vint Cerf, Chair, IANN Board of Directors, 
Paul Twomey, CEO, ICANN 
From: Leslie Daigle, Chair, IAB 
Cc: IAB, John Klensin, IAB Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors 
Doug Barton, General Manager, IANA 
Subject: IAB update on IANA processing of IETF work


```

Vint, Paul,


At the end of May, I sent you a  

[note](/documents/correspondence/2004-05-27-iana-report.html)  

outlining the state of the IAB’s concerns with IANA protocol processing, and pointing to a set of assignment completion data that the IAB had begun to collect and publish on a monthly basis.


Four months later, the IAB has put together a more comprehensive report for the ICANN Board. The report (attached) covers the following areas:


* reviewing a pair of IAB IANA actions of particular concern
* reviewing our perception of the general state of IANA protocol parameter assignment handling
* returning to the question of moving forward in a more comprehensive and cooperative fashion


To the latter, point, my note in May alluded to some discussions I’d had with Doug Barton, and I expressed optimism that we would be working out a cooperative activity reporting structure. Unfortunately, there hasn’t been significant progress on that in the four months since that note, although the IETF is continuing its work to quantify and objectively measure progress of the activities related to completing its technical work. As noted in the report below, there are plans to try to meet in October, but we are looking for some further signals of support from ICANN that any results from the meeting can be expected to be put into effect.


I hope the next four months are more positive in terms of jointly moving forward on identifying and solving issues with protocol parameter assignment process.


Best regards,


Leslie.  

Chair, Internet Architecture Board.




---


IAB Report on IETF IANA Functions, September 2004.
--------------------------------------------------


### Recent requests of particular concern


The IAB has asked IANA to make 2 delegations in ip6.arpa this year.


On February 9, 2004, the [IAB requested](/documents/correspondence/2004-02-09-6to4-rev-delegation.html) that IANA perform a delegation for the “6-to-4” IPv6 address space’s reverse lookup tree, 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa.


On May 24, 2004, the [IAB requested](/documents/correspondence/2004-05-24-3ffe-rev-delegation.html) that the IANA perform a delegation for 3.f.f.e.ip6.arpa.


Then the IAB heard absolutely nothing from IANA.


By late June, 2004, the IPv6 user community was becoming agitated about the lack of action on these requests, as contacted the IAB. After informal enquiries produced no result, the IAB sent a  

[formal reminder](/documents/correspondence/2004-07-16-iana-delegation.html) to IANA:


On July 21, 2004, the 3.f.f.e.ip6.arpa delegation was made, as requested. By August 4, 2004 the final details were available to complete the 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa delegation. By early September, that delegation still had not been made. The IANA General Manager, Doug Barton, represented informally to members of the IAB and the CEOs of the RIRs that ICANN had concerns with the delegation. (For example, see [note from Paul Wilson, September 17, 2004](/documents/correspondence/2004-07-16-iana-delegation.html)) The delegation was completed on September 17, 2004, to the appreciation of the IPv6 community.


The key failures in the experience, from the IAB’s perspective, were:


* + the absolute silence from IANA through several months while the actions were pending. Such extended periods without any form of response of the part of IANA does nothing to assuage concerns about unacceptable processing delays, and potentially lost requests
	+ that the IANA sat on the 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa request for seven months without making any form of response to the IAB, rather than indicate that there might be an issue, within the first week of the request having been made
	+ that the IANA thought that it should independently evaluate the technical merits of the delegation, rather than enter into a dialogue with the IAB.


### General IANA Internet-Draft Assignment Action Performance Issues


Since April, 2004, the IAB has been posting a [monthly snapshot](/documents/docs/iana/iana-report.html) of the state of IANA processing of Internet-Draft based requests. The report is clear that it is an external perspective of activity, based on data pulled from the RFC Editor’s posted queue.. From that data, we have put together some illustrations.


The [first](/documents/docs/iana/queue-stats1.png)  

shows a running queue average, on a weekly basis. Note that the shape and nature of the graph changes in Q1, 2004, as a result of RFC Editor queue status reporting changes.


What is of particular interest in this graph is that it illustrates that a signficiant portion of the request queue is composed of documents that have been languishing for greater than 3 months. It also seems to indicate that, after the heroic effort of May 2004 to clear the backlog of queued documents, the overall queue length has been increasing again.


The IAB is concerned about both of these facts.


The [second illustration](/documents/docs/iana/queue-stats2.png)  

shows, on a monthly basis, the number of new documents (i.e., arrival of a document requesting IANA service), the number of documents completed, together with the overall queuelength (at the end of the month).


Of particular interest in this graph is the very bursty nature of the IANA actions (completions). There is little or no consistency in the level of activity across months. Nor is there any obvious correlation between spikes in new arrivals (requests) and spikes in action completions — that is, the IANA activity seems to be prioritized on a basis that is completely internal to, and decided by, the IANA organization. With this note, we are signalling that we are not satisfied with the outcome of that internal prioritization process in terms of its success in producing timely assignment of IETF protocol parameters.


### Steps From Here


There continues to be discussions about setting up a joint IETF/IANA meeting to work on better metrics for reporting IANA processing. Of course, we would be happy to participate in such a meeting, but our experience of the last several months leads us to believe we need first to hear input from ICANN as to what approach would be most effective, and to what approach ICANN would be willing to commit, for the purpose of getting the processing itself under control and having more public visibility into progress.


In general, we believe this activity should include the setting of performance targets in terms of setting expectatations as to what the community should expect in terms of IANA throughput rates and responsiveness with respect to all IANA actions.


### Conclusions


The IAB has expressed concern, for some time, about IANA protocol assignment performance. We are endeavouring, with this note, to provide a concrete basis for ensuring there is shared commitment to adequate performance for the IETF’s IANA functions, and avoiding further repetition of the issues outlined above.




---



```
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 2004 To: Leslie Daigle, Chair, IAB, Paul Twomey, CEO, ICANN From: Vint Cerf, Chair, IANN Board of Directors Cc: IAB, John Klensin, IAB Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors Doug Barton, General Manager, IANA, Kurt Pritz, ICANN ICANN Board of Directors Subject: Re: IAB update on IANA processing of IETF work


```

Leslie,


First, thank you for taking the time, on behalf of the IAB, to stimulate discussion about the effectiveness of the IANA function with regard to actions initiated by IAB. Second, I share the general desire to place the relationship between IANA and IAB on a firm footing that includes finding ways to make the IANA functions more responsive to its constituents. Third, I would recommend continuing dialog to establish norms for response time and/or procedures.


Paul, Kurt, Doug,


I trust that you will actively look for ways to both validate the IAB measures, possibly make additional measurements, and find ways to achieve the desired results.


Vint


 


