


```
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004
From: Leslie Daigle
To: Richard Hill
Cc: IAB, RIPE NCC (Carsten Schiefner), IETF Liaison to ITU-T (Scott Bradner)
Subject: Upcoming clarifications to RIPE NCC instructions for e164.arpa
        operation

```

Richard,


Pursuant to our  [note to RIPE NCC](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-01-22-enum-subcodes.html), sent by Patrik Fältström on January 22, 2004, the IAB has reviewed the text of the instructions to RIPE NCC for the operation of the e164.arpa domain.


We have observed that in describing the handling of requests based on country codes (CC’s, referenced in Notes 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 of [the instructions](https://www.iab.org/documents/docs/sg2-liaison-e164-sep-02.html)) we have not given RIPE NCC instructions on how to identify country code requests, or what to do if a request is not at the country code level.


We propose to clarify this by adding the following notes to the instructions:



> 
> 
> 
> |  |  |
> | --- | --- |
> | 2.8 | This document instructs the RIPE NCC in the handling of CC e164 delegations. For each request, the RIPE NCC will ask ITU TSB to supply confirmation that the requested delegation is in fact an e164 CC. |
> | 2.9 | In the case that a request is made for an e164 number that is not a CC, RIPE NCC will not make the delegation under the terms of these instructions. RIPE NCC will inform ITU TSB and the applicant that it will not proceed with the requested CC delegation, as the object is not recognised by the ITU TSB as a CC. |
> | 2.10 | RIPE NCC may accept a proposal to operate the delegated domain, but that will be undertaken as a separate business activity that is outside the scope of this agreement with the IAB. |
> 
> 
> 


Unless there are substantive issues with these proposed clarifications, we intend to formally update the RIPE NCC instructions on August 9, 2004.


Best regards,


Leslie,  

for the IAB.




---


**Response from Richard Hill, ITU-T:**



```
From: Richard Hill, ITU-T
To: Leslie Daigle, IAB
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 2004
Subject: RE: Upcoming clarifications to RIPE NCC instructrions for e164.arpa operation


I will request the SG2 Rapporteur, Gary Richenaker, to get back to you 
immediately if he sees any issues.

Thanks and best,
Richard

Richard Hill
Counsellor, ITU-T SG2
International Telecommunication Union
Place des Nations
CH-1211 Geneva 20
Switzerland
tel: +41 22 730 5887
FAX: +41 22 730 5853
Email: richard.hill@itu.int
Study Group 2 email: tsbsg2@itu.int

```


