

```

Date: 16 July 2004
To: IANA
CC: IAB, NRO-Executive Council, Bob Fink, Doug Barton
Subject: IANA Delegation Requests


```

Hi,


On the 17th June the chair of the IAB, Leslie Daigle, wrote to you concerning the IAB requests to IANA to delegate 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa and e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.


The 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa delegation request was passed to IANA on the 9th February 2004:


 [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-02-09-6to4-rev-delegation.html](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-02-09-6to4-rev-delegation.html)
The e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa delegation request was passed to IANA on the 24th May:


 [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-05-24-3ffe-rev-delegation.html](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-05-24-3ffe-rev-delegation.html)
The IAB is concerned over the apparent inaction with respect to these requests, and with this note the IAB formally requests:


1. that IANA acknowledges receipt of this note
2. that IANA acknowledges receipt of the delegation request for 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa to IANA dated 9 February 2004 from the IAB
3. that IANA acknowledges receipt of the delegation request for e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa, to IANA dated 24 May 2004 from the IAB
4. that IANA provides a firm commitment to the IAB, the Number Resource Organization, and the 6BONE of the dates by which these delegations will have been implemented by the IANA
5. that on the date so indicated that you communicate to the IAB that the requested actions have taken place.


It is unfortunate that the IAB has considered it necessary to move to such a formal protocol for such requests, but it appears that the assumption that such instructions would be implemented by IANA in a timely manner without further IAB followup is evidently inappropriate at this juncture.


regards,


Geoff Huston,  

Executive Director, IAB


---


**Response from Doug Barton, IANA**



```
Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2004
From: Doug Barton, ICANN
To: Geoff Huston, IAB
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO, Bob Fink


```

Geoff,


I first want to acknowledge receipt of this e-mail, per your point 1 below. Second, I acknowledge that IANA received copies of the two messages mentioned in points 2 and 3 below.


As for your request for implementation dates on the delegations, I have discussed the issue briefly with John Crain. As I’m sure you are aware, we are currently in Kuala Lumpur for the ICANN meeting. We have discussed the implementation of these delegations remotely, and we feel that in spite of the time zone issues, the weekend, etc., we will have an answer for you on this soon.


Doug



```
--
Doug Barton
General Manager, The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

```



---


**Response from Geoff Huston, IAB**



```
Date: Sun, 18 Jul 2004
From Geoff Huston, IAB
To: Doug Barton, IANA
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO, Bob Fink


```

Doug,


Thank you for your prompt response, and thank you for acknowledging receipt of the IAB requests.


As this is becoming a matter of some pressing timeliness in terms of the user communities whose interests we are representing though these requests, we would appreciate your efforts to achieve some expedited IANA action on these outstanding delegation requests.


regards,


Geoff Huston  

Executive Director, IAB


---


**Response from Doug Barton, IANA**



```
Date: Wed, 21 Jul 2004
From: Doug Barton
To: Geoff Huston
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO, Bob Fink


```

FYI, the reverse delegation for e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa. has been completed.


Doug




---


**Delegation Check for 3.f.f.e.ip6.arpa**



> 
> 
> ```
> $ dig e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa. in ns
> 
> ; <<>> DiG 9.2.1 <<>> e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa. in ns
> ;; global options:  printcmd
> ;; Got answer:
> ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 49244
> ;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 4, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 4
> 
> ;; QUESTION SECTION:
> ;e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.              IN      NS
> 
> ;; ANSWER SECTION:
> e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.       259200  IN      NS      imag.imag.fr.
> e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.       259200  IN      NS      sonata.hexago.com.
> e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.       259200  IN      NS      ns3.nic.fr.
> e.f.f.3.ip6.arpa.       259200  IN      NS      flag.ep.net.
> 
> ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
> flag.ep.net.            111855  IN      A       198.32.4.13
> flag.ep.net.            7152    IN      AAAA    3ffe:805::2d0:b7ff:fee8:c4d9
> imag.imag.fr.           1117    IN      A       129.88.30.1
> imag.imag.fr.           1117    IN      AAAA    2001:660:5301:1e::101
> 
> ;; Query time: 323 msec
> ;; SERVER: 202.12.29.61#53(202.12.29.61)
> ;; WHEN: Wed Jul 21 12:18:30 2004
> ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 226
> 
> ```
> 
> 




---


**Note from Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee to Doug Barton, General Manager, ICANN**



```
Date: Tuesday, 27 Jul 2004
From: Paul Wilson, NRO
To: Doug Barton, IANA
CC: NRO Executive Committee, IANA, IAB

```

Following are the details for the delegation of 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa to the NRO. The RIRs are in the process of engineering the backends at each site, and we will advise you when the infrastructure is ready (probably around the end of this week).


Thanks,


Paul Wilson  

NRO



> 
> 
> ```
> 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa.        IN  NS   ns-apnic.6to4.nro.net.
>                          IN  NS   ns-arin.6to4.nro.net.
>                          IN  NS   ns-lacnic.6to4.nro.net.
>                          IN  NS   ns-ripe.6to4.nro.net.
> 
> 
> ns-apnic.6to4.nro.net.   IN  A    202.12.28.131
> ns-apnic.6to4.nro.net.   IN  AAAA 2001:dc0:1:0:4777::131
> 
> ns-arin.6to4.nro.net.    IN  A    69.25.34.195
> ns-arin.6to4.nro.net.    IN  AAAA 2001:440:2000:1::22
> 
> ns-lacnic.6to4.nro.net.  IN  A    200.160.0.7
> 
> ns-ripe.6to4.nro.net.    IN  A    193.0.0.193
> ns-ripe.6to4.nro.net.    IN  AAAA 2001:610:240:0:53::193
> 
> ```
> 
> 




---


**Note from IAB Executive Director to IANA General Manageer**



```
Date: Wednesday, 4 Aug 2004
From: Geoff Huston, IAB
To: Doug Barton, IANA


```

The note I sent previously on the topic of the 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa delegation perhaps should have referenced the basis under which this request was made. A description of the documentation that forms the basis of this request is provided here.


RFC 3172 documents the arrangements for the management of the .arpa domain, including, as an appendix, a note from the US Department of Commerce to IANA on this topic, indicating that this domain is managed as follows:



> “The Internet Architecture Board (IAB), in cooperation with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), is currently responsible for managing the Top Level Domain (TLD) name “arpa”.
> 
> 
> (Section 2 of RFC 3172)
> 
> 


This document references RFC 3152 in relation to the ip6.arpa domain. (Section 4 and referenced document [7])


RFC 3152, Section 3, includes the specification of further delegation of zones from this domain to the Regional Internet Registries.


The IAB has received a communication from the Regional Internet Registries to the effect that the Regional Internet Registries have formed the Number Resource Organization as the vehicle for certain common undertakings and activities across the Regional Internet Registries ([http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-01-19-nro.html](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-01-19-nro.html)).


This set of information forms the basis under which the IAB has made the delegation request for 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa.


I trust that this information is of some use to you in setting out the basis for the IAB’s delegation request. If there is anything further you would like in terms of information relating to this request, please let me know straight away, as there is some pressure here to complete this request promptly, as I’ve advised you in previous notes on this topic.


Kind regards,


Geoff Huston  

Executive DIrector,  

Internet Architecture Board


---


**Note from Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee to Doug Barton, General Manager, ICANN**



```
Date: Wednesday, 4 Aug 2004
From: Paul Wilson, NRO
To: Doug Barton, IANA
CC: NRO Executive Committee, IANA, IAB

```

All RIR preparations are complete we are ready to receive this delegation. Please could you acknowledge this request and advise when the delegation will be complete.


Thanks and regards


Paul Wilson  

NRO




---


**Note from Doug Barton, IANA General Manager to Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee**



```
Date: Fri, 06 Aug 2004
From: Doug Barton, IANA
To: Paul Wilson, NRO
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO EC, ICANN Secsac Chair


```

Thank you for this notice, I’m glad to hear that the preparations are now complete. I’m still in San Diego, but I’ll be back in the office next week. I’ll do my best to get you an answer on this asap.


Doug




---


**Note from Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee to Doug Barton, IANA General Manager**



```
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2004
From: Paul Wilson, NRO
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO EC, ICANN Secsac Chair


```

Dear Doug,


Could you please provide me with a date by which this delegation will be made, in accordance with your instructions from the IAB.


Thanks,


Paul Wilson  

Chair, NRO.




---


**Note from Geoff Huston, Executive Director of the IAB to Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee**



```
Date: Wed, 15 Sept 2004
From: Geoff Huston, IAB
To: Paul Wilson, NRO
CC: Leslie Daigle, IAB Chair


```

Paul,


As you are aware, in my role as Executive Director of the IAB I have been tracking the exchange of correspondence relating to the IAB’s delegation request to the IANA for the 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa domain originally made in January of this year.


I note that the last item that has been copied to the IAB is a note from yourself to the General Manager of IANA requesting a date by which IANA will have completed the delegation, of the 17th August.


I have been informed that the CEOs of the Regional Internet Registries met with IANA and ICANN staff in early September and I am lead to understand that the status of this matter was discussed. Is there any update to the status of the delegation request that you would care to share with the IAB, so that the IAB can have a clear picture of the current status of this request? With your permission I would like to add any response you can provide to this request to the already published exchange of correspondence on this matter, as documented at the URL  [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-07-16-iana-delegation.html](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2004-07-16-iana-delegation.html)


Kind regards,


Geoff Huston  

Executive Director, IAB




---


**Note from Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee to Geoff Huston, IAB Executive Director**



```
Date: Fri, 17 Sept 2004
From: Paul Wilson, NRO
To: Geoff Huston, IAB
CC: Leslie Daigle, IAB Chair


```

Geoff and Leslie,


The NRO EC (comprising the CEOs of each RIR) met with IANA and ICANN staff on 31 August, in Nadi, Fiji. We discussed the matter of the 6to4 DNS delegation, and the RIRs asked for a report on any remaining difficulties with the delegation process.


Doug Barton explained that 2 issues had been raised regarding the request, and were still being discussed within ICANN.


Firstly, Doug reported that some members of the ICANN Board were curious as to why the IAB gave such specific operational instructions to IANA (e.g. the specific nameserver details). He said that the Board members wish to get a better idea of the IAB’s position on operational issues in future. He also said that there was concern that there be better clarification of how the IAB should document its instructions. Doug also reported that IANA staff were continuing to liaise with IAB on this matter.


Secondly, Doug expressed a concern that the RIRs have not been delegated the entire IPv4 unicast space and therefore should not be delegated the entire 6to4 space. He proposed delegating to the RIRs only on a /8 basis, as the /8s are allocated. The RIRs responded that we had not been previously advised of this issue, and we could not accept the proposal without detailed consideration. We pointed out that our work on implementation of this service was nearly complete, and that some reengineering of the system would be needed to accommodate this solution; however we would not go ahead with that work until the matter was resolved.


We would be interested in your perspective as to the status of these discussions between the ICANN and the IAB so that we could have a better understanding as to when these issues will be resolved. We are anxious to provide this service to our communities as soon as reasonably possible.


Paul Wilson  

Chair  

NRO




---


**Note from Geoff Huston, Executive Director of the IAB to Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee**



```
Date: Fri, 17 Sept 2004
From: Geoff Huston, IAB
To: Paul Wilson, NRO
CC: Leslie Daigle, IAB Chair


```

Paul,


Thank you for this note.


It raises a number of issues which appear to be at variance with the documentation of progress in this case.


In point of fact, at no stage has the IAB given specific delegation instructions to the IANA. The published record of correspondance shows that the specific details were (quite properly) provided by yourself, and the IAB’s instructions were limited to a request to coordinate with the secretariat of the NRO.


Secondly, the IAB carefully documented the basis of its request, both initially (referencing RFC 3056 and your note introducing the NRO to the IAB), and again on the 4th August.


The IAB requested Patrick Faltstrom and Rob Austein to carefully check the proposed mode of operation of the delegated domain from a technical perspective as a precondition to passing the delegation request to IANA. The operational proposal was reviewed by members of the IPv6 working group and by the original authors of the 6to4 specification. There has been no evident comment from IANA that the proposed mode of operation is in any way technically deficient here, and it is not readily apparent how to interpret the relevance of the /8 suggestion given that the delegations can only be performed on routed address space that has been duly passed through the address distribution process to end users.


Finally, the IAB is in the process of raising this matter with the IAB’s liaison to the ICANN Board, and we will keep you informed of this once the documentation of the IAB’s concerns has been finalized.


Again, thank you for this update, and we appreciate your anxiety to provide this service to the community as soon as practicable.


regards,


Geoff Huston  

Executive Director, IAB




---


**Note from Doug Barton, IANA General Manager to Paul Wilson, Chair of the Number Resource Organization Executive Committee**



```
Date: Fri, 17 Sept 2004
From: Doug Barton, IANA
To: Paul Wilson, NRO
CC: IANA, IAB, NRO EC, ICANN Secsac Chair


```

Paul,


The delegation has been completed. I was able to verify that everything looks good on all 4 servers, although I did notice that ns-arin.6to4.nro.net (which appears to be the same host as tinnie.arin.net) is having some intermittent problems. I’m sure that this is just a transient situation, but I thought that I would bring it to your attention just in case.


If there is anything else I can do to help, please let me know.


Regards,


Doug



```
--
Doug Barton
General Manager, The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
```

