
Uruguay, 7 October 2013


The leaders of organizations responsible for coordination of the Internet technical infrastructure globally have met in Montevideo, Uruguay, to consider current issues affecting the future of the Internet.


The Internet and World Wide Web have brought major benefits in social and economic development worldwide. Both have been built and governed in the public interest through unique mechanisms for global multistakeholder Internet cooperation, which have been intrinsic to their success.  The leaders discussed the clear need to continually strengthen and evolve these mechanisms, in truly substantial ways, to be able to address emerging issues faced by stakeholders in the Internet.


In this sense:


* They reinforced the importance of globally coherent Internet operations, and warned against Internet fragmentation at a national level. They expressed strong concern over the undermining of the trust and confidence of Internet users globally due to recent revelations of pervasive monitoring and surveillance.
* They identified the need for ongoing effort to address Internet Governance challenges, and agreed to catalyze community-wide efforts towards the evolution of global multistakeholder Internet cooperation.
* They called for accelerating the globalization of ICANN and IANA functions, towards an environment in which all stakeholders, including all governments, participate on an equal footing.
* They also called for the transition to IPv6 to remain a top priority globally. In particular Internet content providers must serve content with both IPv4 and IPv6 services, in order to be fully reachable on the global Internet.


Adiel A. Akplogan, CEO  

African Network Information Center (AFRINIC)


John Curran, CEO  

American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN)


Paul Wilson, Director General  

Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC)


Russ Housley, Chair  

Internet Architecture Board (IAB)


Fadi Chehadé, President and CEO  

Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)


Jari Arkko, Chair  

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)


Lynn St. Amour, President and CEO  

Internet Society (ISOC)


Raúl Echeberría, CEO  

Latin America and Caribbean Internet Addresses Registry (LACNIC)


Axel Pawlik, Managing Director  

Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC)


Jeff Jaffe, CEO  

World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)


