
The leaders of the Internet technical organizations responsible for coordination of the Internet infrastructure (IETF, IAB, RIRs, ccTLD ROs, ICANN, ISOC, and W3C), welcome the US Government’s announcement of the suggested changes related to the IANA functions contract.


The roles on policy development processes of the Internet technical organizations and ICANN’s role as administrator of the IANA functions, remain unchanged.


The transition of the US Government stewardship has been envisaged since the early days of IANA functions contract. This transition is now feasible due to the maturity of the Internet technical organizations involved in performing their respective roles related to the IANA functions, and ICANN will facilitate a global, multi-stakeholder process to plan for the transition.


The strength and stability of the IANA functions within the above organizations (which make up the Internet technical community) are critical to the operation of the Internet. The processes around the IANA functions have always been carefully specified in the communities that our organizations represent. The IANA functions are faithfully administered by ICANN. We are committed to continuing our proven, community-driven processes as we engage in this transition. Our communities are already considering proposals to progress the transition.


Our organizations are committed to open and transparent multi-stakeholder processes. We are also committed to further strengthening our processes and agreements related to the IANA functions, and to building on the existing organizations and their roles. The Internet technical community is strong enough to continue its role, while assuming the stewardship function as it transitions from the US Government.


Participating Leaders


• Adiel A. Akplogan, CEO African Network Information Center (AFRINIC)


• Barrack Otieno, Manager, The African Top Level Domains Organization (AFTLD)


• Paul Wilson, Director General Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC)


• Don Hollander, General Manager Asia Pacific Top Level Domain Association (APTLD)


• John Curran, CEO American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN)


• Peter Van Roste, General Manager, Council for European National Top Level Domain Registries (CENTR)


• Russ Housley, Chair Internet Architecture Board (IAB)


• Fadi Chehadé, President and CEO Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)


• Jari Arkko, Chair Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)


• Kathy Brown, President and CEO Internet Society (ISOC)


• Raúl Echeberría, CEO Latin America and Caribbean Internet Addresses Registry (LACNIC)


• Carolina Aguerre, General Manager, Latin American and Caribbean TLD Association (LACTLD)


• Axel Pawlik, Managing Director Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC)


• Jeff Jaffe, CEO World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)


