
Subject: Revised Operating Instructions for e164.arpa (ENUM)  

Date: 2 May 2019 at 14:40:40 CEST


Dear colleagues,


The RIPE NCC is the operator of the e164.arpa zone (ENUM) and maintains  

the associate registry in accordance with the instructions of the  

Internet Architecture Board (IAB). As delegations are based on E.164  

country code allocations, any changes to the registry are coordinated  

with and approved by the respective holders of the E.164 country code  

via the ITU’s Telecommunications Standardisation Bureau (TSB).


Recent checks have shown that over time, many of the current 57  

delegations have deteriorated – they are no longer technically  

functional or the contacts details for the country code registry have  

not been updated.


Seeking advice from the IAB on these matters, they agreed to revise the  

instructions to address these issues. Among the changes is new text  

regarding the deletion of delegations and instructions that allow the  

RIPE NCC to do periodic checks on registry data.


This will allow us to initiate a process to review the existing  

delegations and coordinate with the registries, governments and the TSB  

to mitigate and correct any errors. In cases where we are unable to  

correct an error, we will advise the government involved to remove the  

delegation, until such time that a new registry can assume  

responsibility for the country code and restore its technical  

functionality.


ITU Study Group 2, which is responsible for the E.164 number registry,  

shared our concerns and at its last meeting agreed to update its  

instructions to the TSB to reflect these changes. As we remain committed  

to coordinating any delegations with TSB, the Member States involved and  

Study Group 2, we welcome the study group’s renewed interest in the  

topic and its support in reviewing and updating these registrations.


The new instructions have now been published on our website and, with  

the IAB’s approval, we will now operate the registry in accordance with  

these.


The instructions are available here:  

<https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/dns/enum/iab-instructions>


Kind Regards,


Marco Hogewoning  

Senior External Relations Officer, RIPE NCC,


Ted Hardie  

For the IAB


