
From: IAB Chair <iab-chair@iab.org>  

Subject: DNSSEC deployment for the Root Zone [Docket No. 100603240–0240–01]  

Date: July 1, 2010 2:57:24 PM PDT  

To: DNSSEC@ntia.doc.gov  

Cc: iab@iab.org



Fiona Alexander,  

Associate Administrator, Office of International Affairs,   

National Telecommunications and Information Administration   

US Department of Commerce   

1401 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 4701   

Washington, DC 20230 


Dear Fiona Alexander,


The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) supports the next steps in signing the root being taken at the anticipated completion date.


We observe that the NTIA was involved in the details of setting technical requirements and in organizing the technical review process. Without making any qualitative statements about that process, we believe this to be a project where the use of an open collaborative forum would have been more appropriate. We understand that in the absence of such a forum, a Notice of Inquiry process is being used to collect feedback; however, we would encourage the Department to use mechanisms that can allow full engagement of the Internet technical community for technical evaluations in future.


In that context we would want to refer to earlier correspondence with ICANN [(http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2009-10-14-ICANN-Scaling-the-Root.html)](/documents/correspondence/2009-10-14-ICANN-Scaling-the-Root.html) where we argued for the development of an appropriate structure to review technical issues with respect to root-zone operations (ad distinct from root-zone content) such as the details of DNSSEC deployment and the scaling issues that were the subject of the earlier correspondence.



We also believe that the current procedures and requirements should be subject to evolution based on experience and community feedback.


So, while we hope that the organizational model under which this project has succeeded will not set precedent for the future, we are extremely happy that the root is signed and want to see the deployment completed by the publication of the Key Signing Key.


Kind regards, for the IAB,


For the IAB,  

Olaf Kolkman  

IAB Chair






IAB. The Internet Architecture Board has a long history that started at DARPA but is currently viewed as an international senior committee working with the IETF that has both technical (architectural) functions and oversight functions for the development of the Internet. For more information about the IAB see www.iab.org. The IAB membership is shown at [http://www.iab.org/about/members.html](/about/members.html)


