
On 2020-09-29, the IAB submitted the following comments on the [Draft Final Report on the new gTLD Subsequent Procedures Policy Development Process](https://gnso.icann.org/sites/default/files/file/field-file-attach/draft-final-report-new-gtld-subsequent-21sep20-en.pdf):



```
The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) offers the following comments 
about the Draft Final Report on the new gTLD Subsequent Procedures 
Policy Development Process.  It cannot be overemphasised how important 
the continued availability of the globally unique Domain Name System 
(DNS) is, and the IAB appreciates the care with which modifications to 
the global DNS root are being reviewed within the ICANN process.

The IAB has no feedback on the general processes discussed in the Draft 
Final Report. However, the IAB wishes to comment on aspects that relate 
to global interoperability, technology, or relevant IETF processes and 
standards. With these in mind, the IAB recognizes and appreciates the 
inclusion of Affirmation 21.3 and its reference to the IETF's RFC6761 on 
Special-Use Domain Names, as well as Recommendation 25.2's reference to 
RFC5890-5895 on Internationalized Domain Names for Applications. The IAB 
has also previously stated in RFC 2826 that to remain a global network, 
the Internet requires the existence of a globally unique public name 
space. The need to have a single, unique DNS root might perhaps be 
something that could be explicitly stated as a constraint for the 
processes discussed in the report.  Finally, the IAB agrees with the 
need for a private-use TLD as discussed in SSAC113 and encourages the 
SubPro working group to consider including an affirmation supporting 
this document as well.
```

