

Internet Activities Board
-------------------------


### Meeting Minutes — June 14, 1991


 FOREWORD



This document contains minutes of the meeting of the Internet Activities Board (IAB) held on June 14, 1991 at the San Diego Supercomputer Center in San Diego, CA. Members of the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) participated in this meeting.


 The meeting agenda will be found in Appendix A. The attendees were: 


 IAB Members:


 Bob Braden, ISI  

 Vint Cerf, CNRI  

 Lyman Chapin, BBN  

 David Clark, MIT LCS  

 Phill Gross, CNRI  

 Christian Huitema, INRIA  

 Steve Kent, BBN  

 Tony Lauck, DEC  

 Barry Leiner, ADS  

 Dan Lynch, Interop, Inc.  

 Jon Postel, ISI

 IESG Members:


 Ross Callon, DEC  

 J. Noel Chiappa, Consultant  

 Robert Hinden, BBN  

 D. Crocker, DEC

 FNC Visitors:

 Steve Wolff, NSF


 Scribe:

 Elise Gerich, Merit



### 1. STANDARDS ISSUES


#### 1.1 Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) to Draft Standard

 The IESG forwarded the two BGP documents — protocol spec and usage description — to the IAB, not as a formal submission for advancement, but for guidance on the quality of the documents. Hinden reported that the Experience and Analysis documents for BGP, required by the procedures for advancing routing protocols, are also available.


 It was agreed that BGP is very important to the Internet, and it needs to be advanced. There was some uncertainty about where BGP will “burn down”, and about what policies BGP will permit. The consensus was that the protocol spec is acceptable but that the usage document needs to be revised. Since there is not enough experience with implementations of the policy attributes of BGP, the usage document should make clear that BGP is being used in a restricted way. 


 Cerf observed that BGP is currently installed as an EGP replacement without policies, and that it can be deployed incrementally. He suggested that we ask network managers to explain how they will use BGP to replicate today’s routing policies. This study could be done in parallel with the development and progress of BGP. Braun mentioned that Peter Ford (Los Alamos National Laboratory) is interested in making a study of this sort. The IAB felt that this would be a valuable activity. 


 The IAB recommended to the IESG that they modify the usage document and then formally submit the documents to the IAB for advancement. As for the quality of the written style of the documents, the IESG will revise as necessary with the guidance of the RFC Editor, Jon Postel. 


 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Forward IAB recommendations on BGP to IESG.





#### 1.2 Ethernet MIB to Proposed Standard

 The discussion centered on variables that are mandated in the MIB document but are optional in the IEEE 802.3 standard. The IAB and IESG want to avoid a conflict with the work of other standards organizations. The IAB remanded the document for reconsideration of the variables in question, to minimize conflict with the IEEE committee(s), and to obtain the rationale for making them mandatory under Internet rules when they are optional under IEEE rules. The document author agreed to withdraw the disputed variables.


 Gross reported that the IETF received a letter from the 802.3 committee concerning the overlapping of standards activities, and the IESG had drafted a response. This draft response indicates that the IETF: 

1. writes the MIBs for SNMP;
2. reserves the right to subset, based on operational considerations;
3. will coordinate with the other body;
4. will not begin work in areas where work exists.

 The IESG has not yet sent this letter, pending resolution of the optional vs. mandatory Ethernet MIB variables. The IAB concluded that the letter should err on the conservative side, rather than be aggressive in asserting the rights of the IAB/IETF. Gross took the action to rewrite the letter for resubmittal to the IAB. 


 NEW ACTION: Gross: Redraft letter to IEEE on overlapping stan- dards activities.





#### 1.3 Common IGP Selection – Statement of Position

 The IESG has proposed OSPF as a common IGP and recommended that all vendors of IP routers implement OSPF. The IAB endorsed the proposal of the IESG unanimously, with one abstention (Clark). Gross will (1) send the recommendation to the Router Requirements Working Group; (2) publish it as an Internet Draft; (3) discuss as the IETF meeting in July; and (4) officially submit it to the IAB as an Applicability Statement, and publish it as an RFC.


 NEW ACTION: Gross: Perform steps to publish policy on OSPF as common IGP.





#### 1.4 Standards Procedures Document

 There was some question as to the status of the draft document describing the IAB/IETF procedures for setting standards. Section 4 appears to be unfinished. 


 NEW ACTION: Cerf, ExecD, D. Crocker: Rework Standards Pro- cedures document and publish as Internet Draft prior to July IETF meeting.






### 2. OSI NSAP FORMAT


 The discussion concerning the document “Guidelines of OSI NSAP in the Internet” focused on the following areas: 

1. In what category does the document belong – Experimental, Infor- mational, or Proposed Standard?
 The problem is that there is an urgent need for this spec, to prevent different groups from going down incompatible paths; however, there is little experience on which to base it, and therefore fear that we might discover later that we went down the wrong path.
2. What should the title be – “Guidelines”, “Interim Guidelines”, …?
 Again, the issue is the short-term need vs. the long-term uncer- tainty.
3. Is the document [too] US-centric? It emphasizes the GOSIP for- mat, which is certainly US-centric.

 Chapin suggested two minor changes: correct the address of the ANSI contact and attach 3 applicable ANSI documents. There is a lack of experience with multi-homed cases, so Callon will modify the document to indicate that the suggestions are primarily for the single homed case. 


 The decision was made to advance this document to Proposed Standard state with a change in the title (“Interim Guidelines…”) and the addition of a warning that “this is our best suggestion”. 


 NEW ACTION: Callon: Revise NSAP format draft to include clear warning on interim nature of document, and to fix ANSI facts.






### 3. PRIVACY AND SECURITY


#### 3.1 User Authentication

 There is a user authentication activity within the IETF: John Linn is chairing the CAT WG (Common Authentication Technology Working Group). This Working Group is focusing on providing a common application interface (API). It was noted that Kerberos does not scale well for many authentication domains, and while X.509 is designed to scale well, it is not so far along. The common interface will mask the underlying mechanism.


 The suggestion was made that the SNMP area director should be alerted to investigate scaling considerations with SNMP authentication. 


 Kent distributed to the IAB an analysis of various approaches to user authentication in the Internet, with an emphasis on approaches that could be uniformly available, even when people travel. The IAB asked Steve Wolff whether the Federal Networking Council (FNC) had discussed authentication issues for the federal agency networks. The IAB asked that Wolff distribute Kent’s document to the Working Group Chairs (WGC) of the FNC. 


 NEW ACTION: Kent: Send his draft on user authentication to WGC via Steve Wolff.





#### 3.2 Security Guidelines RFC

 Kent has reviewed this document by Pethia, Crocker and Fraser. He will forward his recommendations to the authors. In addition, he is waiting to receive the annotations to the annotated bibliography.


 NEW ACTION: Kent: Send edited Security Guidelines document to IAB and IESG.





#### 3.3 IPSO not Facto?

 The Host Requirements RFC references RFC-1108 on the IP Security Option (IPSO), but RFC-1108 was never published. To publish it would make some security equipment non-compliant. The options are: (1) proceed as planned, (2) allow two security options, or (3) try to resolve the issue with all of the concerned agencies. There is a meeting scheduled for July to try for some resolution on this matter. The topic was remanded to committee.


 NEW ACTION: Kent, Cerf: Try one more time to get RFC-1108 approved by US government agencies.





 There was some interest expressed in documentation of SPX (DEC authentication software). 


 NEW ACTION: Lauck: Draft DEC text on SPX release to IAB.





 Kent has been invited to testify on privacy enhanced mail and the lack of security in the Internet at a congressional hearing on June 25, 1991.
 


 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Supply Security Guidelines and Site Security Handbook to House Subcommittee on Technology and Competitiveness.






### 4. Meetings


 The Standards Summit Meeting will be held September 16-17, 1991


 NEW ACTION: Chapin, Lynch: Provide IAB with any material prepared for standards summit meeting.





 As a follow-up to his previous action item to caucus on an Internet Visions document, Cerf agreed to write a one page summary of the retreat. 


 NEW ACTION: Cerf: Write summary of 3-day architecture retreat.






### 5. New IAB Chairman


 Lyman Chapin was selected as chairman-elect of the IAB. Unfortunately, overload of other duties will prevent Chapin taking office for a year; in the interim, Vint Cerf agreed to continue to serve as IAB chair.



### 6. Internet Society


 The Internet Society name and logo are registered in the US, and it is being registered in eight other countries. The society is being formed by CNRI, EDUCOM and the IAB, with December ’91 targeted for the beginning of general operations. The official announcement of the society will be made at INET ’91.


 There will be a Board of Trustees with between 5 and 20 members – some elected and some appointed. The board members have a term of 3 years with a maximum of 2 terms. The founders are now looking for new charter members. 


 Everyone in attendance became a “pioneer” member on the spot. Jon Postel was the first to submit his application. 



### 7. Summary of IAB Retreat


 A teleconference is scheduled for July 2, 1991. Group chairs were asked to complete a one page summary prior to the teleconference.


 NEW ACTION: ExecD: July 2 phone call agenda to include final summaries of architecture retreat.





 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Include Hobby in July 2 phone call.





 NEW ACTION: Clark, Chapin, Cerf, Braden, Hobby: One-slide summary of recommendations from their architecture working group.






### 8. National Research and Education Network (NREN)


 Steve Wolff reported that NSF’s team from LANL/LBL had completed a preliminary document on NREN architecture, to be publically available sometime in the next few weeks.


 The road for FY92 is to allow the existing infrastructure to expand. In FY92, NSF’s share of the $50 million in the President’s budget is $12 million. The other agencies will share the rest of the funding to support their mission projects. 


 There is a July 10-12 meeting is to discuss how NSF will use its funding to build the NREN. Wolff indicated that NSF needs a shopping list prior to the July meeting. He requested that copies of the one-page summaries from the Architecture Retreat be forwarded to him for distribution at the July 10-12 NREN workshop that NSF is holding. 



### 9. FNC inputs


 The Information and User Services solicitation for the NREN is due out in the spring of 1992. In the Interim, DCA will fund the SRI-NIC as long as they can. NSF will take over when DCA can no longer support the activities of the SRI-NIC. NSF is looking for a program director for the NREN.



### 10. Internet Registry – RFC-1174


 This was covered during Steve Wolff’s presentation about the solicitation. Gross and Gerich reported that the IEPG had recommended that the registration/allocation process for distributing IP numbers be distributed among various organizations which fulfilled certain criteria. The IEPG plans to have a document to distribute with their recommendations in early July. The IEPG recommendation is in keeping with RFC 1174.



### 11. International Action Items



 NEW ACTION: Gross: Document Terms of Reference of IEPG.





 NEW ACTION: Lauck: Publish ANSI’s registration procedures for OSI.






### 12. Future IAB Meetings


 October 10, 1991, San Jose, CA, InterOp ’91.


 Week of January 6 (tentatively Jan 7-8), Boston, MA. 


 Tentative meeting in conjunction with RARE Workshop, Innsbruck, May 12-14, 1992. 





---


### APPENDIX A — AGENDA


  

 IAB MEETING  

 San Diego Supercomputer Center


 La Jolla, CA


 


 FRIDAY, JUNE 14 

* Standards issues
	+ BGP to Draft Standard
	+ Ethernet MIB to Proposed Standard
	+ Common IGP selection – statement of position
	+ Procedures document
* NSAP Format
	+ Awaiting IAB action?
* Privacy & Security
	+ User Authentication — Kent
	+ Security Guidelines RFC
	+ RFC-1108 — did it ever happen?
* Internet Society
* New IAB chairperson
* NREN
	+ Implications on implementation
	+ HWB portfolio for July meeting
* FNC inputs (if any) – Wolff
* Internet Registry – RFC1174 (IEPG inputs also)
* International action items (if any)
* Future meetings




---


### APPENDIX B — ACTION ITEM SUMMARY — JUNE 17, 1991


 Completed Actions [Note: “OBE” means “Overtaken by Events”]:


 OBE: Gross: Finish RFC on technical guidelines for international Internet connections.



 DONE: Postel, Cerf, Clark, Gross: Caucus on an Internet Visions document.



 OBE: Cerf: Send letter to Sun and Microsoft explaining requirements for Internet standards.



 DONE: Gross: Publish the charter (“Terms of Reference”) and ethics statements of the CCIRN and IEPG as RFCs.



 OBE: Gross: Obtain document describing subset of BGP that is currently being implemented.



 OBE: Cerf: Form a working party to construct straw-person bylaws for an “Internet society”.



 OBE: ExecD: Check whether any earlier action items for the PWG have fallen through the crack.



 OBE: IAB: Review VCerf’s RFC-1167 on the NREN.



 DONE: Cerf: (1) Send RFC-1167 to the OTA panel as a submission on NREN. (2) Offer to comment on the final document when it is available.



 OBE: Cerf: Write a more in-depth version of RFC-1167 on the NREN, for later OTA submission.



 DONE: S. Crocker, Kent: Complete IPSO document and publish as an Internet Draft.



 DONE: Kent: Ask Kille to review distinguished names as defined in PEM.



 DONE: Hinden: Draft a set of criteria for advancing routing protocols to Draft Standard.



 DONE: Chapin: Wordsmith the Internet Standards Procedures draft.



 OBE: Cerf: Form a working party to construct straw-person bylaws for an “Internet society”.



 DONE: Cerf: Continue to push the Internet Society project along. Prepare a set of bylaws and articles of incorporation.



 DONE/OBE: Clark, Cerf: initial caucus on plans for June retreat.



 DONE: Cerf: Write IAB statement on Gross continuing as IETF chair, for circulation to IETF.



 DONE: Cerf, ExecD: Produce new draft of Standards Procedures doc, discuss in Monterey.



 DONE: ExecD: Send out latest draft of the Standards Procedures doc.



 DONE: Gross: Document Terms of Reference of IEPG.



 DONE: Gross: Distribute to IAB the latest draft recommendation on common IGP.



 DONE: Lauck: Investigate X.500 use in secured Internet domains.



 DONE: Lynch, Chapin: Discuss preparing document of IAB standards process for the standards summit meeting on September 16, 17, 1991.



 DONE: Cerf/Kent: Send request to Kille for list of attributes of distinguished names, for use by PEM.



 DONE: Kent: Make St. Johns change to IPSO, and submit to IESG.



 DONE: Lauck: Figure out who at DEC should write release letter to IAB for SPX.



 OBE: Kent, Lauck, Huitema: Prepare report on status and plans for common authentication technology, for April 3 teleconference.



 DONE: Postel: Tell the NIC they should conserve IP addresses.





























































 Pending Actions: 


 ACTION: Gross: Put together a general statement of IAB policy on standardization of encapsulation in IP.



 ACTION: Gross/Coya: Send message to IAB on how to use IETF WG database.



 ACTION: Postel: Draft “Principles of the Internet [Architecture]” document.



 ACTION: Lauck: Write down elaboration of his brief summary of protocol testing issues.



 ACTION: Postel: Try to publish all acceptable-use policies.



 ACTION: Chapin: Cause publication of ANSI registration procedures.



 ACTION: Cerf: Revise summary of the export control policy to include DEC comments.



 ACTION: Chapin, Huitema: Draft new IAB position paper on Whitepages service.



 ACTION: Kent, Cerf, Braun, Lynch: Draft a document summarizing the IAB actions to promote Internet security.



 ACTION: Gross: Forward IEPG draft recommendation on number assignment as soon as available.























 New actions from this meeting:


 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Forward IAB recommendations on BGP to IESG.



 NEW ACTION: Gross: Redraft letter to IEEE on overlapping standards activities.



 NEW ACTION: Gross: Perform steps to publish policy on OSPF as common IGP.



 NEW ACTION: Cerf, ExecD, D. Crocker: Rework Standards Procedures document and publish as Internet Draft prior to July IETF meeting.



 NEW ACTION: Callon: Revise NSAP format draft to include clear warning on interim nature of document, and to fix ANSI facts.



 NEW ACTION: Chapin, Lynch: Provide IAB with any material prepared for standards summit meeting.



 NEW ACTION: Cerf: Write summary of 3-day architecture retreat.



 NEW ACTION: Kent: Send his draft on user authentication to WGC via Steve Wolff.



 NEW ACTION: Kent: Send edited Security Guidelines document to IAB and IESG.



 NEW ACTION: Kent, Cerf: Try one more time to get RFC-1108 approved by US government.



 NEW ACTION: Lauck: Draft DEC text on SPX release to IAB.



 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Supply Security Guidelines and Site Security Handbook to House Subcommittee on Technology and Competitiveness.



 NEW ACTION: Clark, Chapin, Cerf, Braden, Hobby: One-slide summary of recommendations from their architecture working group.



 NEW ACTION: ExecD: July 2 phone call agenda to include final summaries of architecture retreat.



 NEW ACTION: ExecD: Include Hobby in July 2 phone call.



 NEW ACTION: Gross: Document Terms of Reference of IEPG.



 NEW ACTION: Lauck: Publish ANSI’s registration procedures for OSI.








































---


