
MINUTES FOR NOVEMBER 14, 1995 IAB TELECONFERENCE
------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Crocker  

 Robert Elz  

 Elise Gerich  

 Phill Gross  

 Christian Huitema  

 Erik Huizer  

 Allison Mankin  

 Paul Mockapetris  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Abel Weinrib  

Lixia Zhang

### NEXT MEETING:


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Jon Postel: Determine the status of the escape clause document.
+ Phill Gross: Send out a second draft of the “IETF goals, vision, and planning” document, and prepare draft presentation for discussion at the Sunday IAB meeting.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Chris Weider: In consultation with application area directors, put together a blue ribbon panel (workshop) to come to closure on character sets.
+ Abel Weinrib: Develop a draft document outlining the rules, practices, etc. for the Internet Research Task Force.
+ Christian Huitema: Write discussion paper on the integration of services and its impact on usage and models of usage.


### NOTES:


#### 1. last call on any minutes still pending


No minutes were pending.

#### 2. review actions and drafts in progress


“Renumbering:” pulled back from BCP because of the number of comments that it should not be a BCP. Instead, publish as informational RFC. Will post as an Internet draft.
 “IPv6 address ownership:” IESG pushed back, wanting clarification of how IANA can withdraw delegations. 


 “Escape Clause:” Waiting for clear directions from the IESG. Jon Postel will determine its status. 


#### 3. brief report from IESG liaison

1. Nomcom liaison is Harald Alvestrand.
2. Absence of ballot on IPv6 address format.
3. Lots of discussion on SNMPv2, which will be covered at the Thursday plenary in Dallas. It has been suggested that they appoint an ombudsperson to focus on process and someone to summarize what actions could be taken. IAB must remain disinterested, since it may end up having to hear an appeal. Erik Huizer successfully acted as ombudsperson re. similar issues with SNMP v1, and might be prepared to do it again.

#### 4. prepare for Kahin workshop on Nov. 20


Attendance from this group:

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Paul Mockapetris  

 Jon Postel  

 Elise Gerich  

 Yakov Rekhter  

Allison Mankin might go for IPv6 issues
 The IAB decided not to submit a position paper at this point. 


 There will be a BOF at the Dallas IETF, the first part of which will be a readout of this workshop. Also, this will be on the agenda for the Sunday IAB meeting. 


#### 5. prepare for Dallas

draft promised by Phill
 Beyond the discussion at the Sunday IAB meeting, this topic will be covered at the Wednesday open IAB meeting. Phill will have a draft presentation to discuss at the Sunday meeting. 


 It was agreed that we need to think more about the list of areas of work that are missing. In the resulting discussion, additional topics that were identified included:


 information infrastructure issues (as identified in the Information Infrastructure workshop)  

 character sets  

 significant overlap exists between PIM/RSVP/RTP/RTCP, without architectural guidance for the designs  

 DHCP as an example of complexity vs. the architectural principles of simplicity and end-to-end  

 where does the IETF’s work stop? Is anything outside of our purview?
 Some people find it disturbing that it is looking like the IETF is not going to define secure e-mail standards, despite our expertise in this area, and has even been accused of slowing down the development. (The SMIME consortium appears to have the momentum right now.) Perhaps we should examine this case as a lesson. On the other hand, perhaps this is a success–do we really care who does it as long as the right thing gets done? 


 The discussion also touched on how to decide what working groups should be redirected, cut off, etc. On the other hand, it was pointed out that the IETF community exhibits a healthy resistance to management and control and any efforts in this area take a lot of time. 


#### 6. some trivia:

 -could ISOC President sit in on our calls?  

As an experiment, Brian will invite him to sit in on the next call. To make it official might require modification to RFC 1601. Should we also nominate an IAB liaison with ISOC?


 -should open IAB minutes be in IAB archive?  

Yes.


 -status of formal liaisons  

What is status of liaison with SC 2? No one knows.


 -revise rfc1601?  

Current charter is comfortably generic. The suggestion was made and accepted that we wait until we see a draft of the POISED document before considering revising 1601. It was reported that the ISOC/IETF relationship is the only issue that looks to be contentious.


 -liaison to NomCom  

Bob Moskowitz has volunteered.



### Future Meetings



 Face-to-face Sunday Dec. 3 in Dallas at 2:00.  

 Open meeting on Wednesday Dec. 6 in Dallas.  

Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, AWeinrib@ibeam.intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available online http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins.




---


