
MINUTES FOR DECEMBER 3 1995 IAB MEETING
---------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Crocker  

 Robert Elz  

 Elise Gerich  

 Phill Gross  

 Erik Huizer  

 Allison Mankin  

 Paul Mockapetris  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

Lixia Zhang

### NEXT MEETING:


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Check into unexpired old IAB-authored Internet drafts

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Chris Weider: In consultation with application area directors, put together a blue ribbon panel (workshop) to come to closure on character sets.
+ Abel Weinrib: Develop a draft document outlining the rules, practices, etc. for the Internet Research Task Force.
+ Christian Huitema: Write discussion paper on the integration of services and its impact on usage and models of usage.


### NOTES:


#### 1. Agree on Agenda


#### 2. Review outstanding action items and documents.


Action Items
 Documents 


 “Renumbering:” Posted as Internet Draft.  

 “IPv6 address ownership:” Posted as Internet Draft.  

 “Escape Clause:” Published as RFC.  

 “Principles of the Internet:” Comments are coming in.  

“What the IAB does” for Connexions, in progress.
#### 3. Report on NSF/Kahin workshop


Bob Moskowitz reported on the workshop. See his trip report for details. Bob concluded there is a role for the IAB to define the pressures on DNS space.
 The U.S. government (FNC) position (as presented to the workshop by Mike StJohns) was that we should shut down the .org and .com TLDs and require that users move to country-based domains. We believe that the U.S. government views itself as a steward of DNS and will only give it up when convinced of continuity of a new organization. 


 The IAB fully believes that we need an open process for defining the process for resolving TLD ownership and management issues–the entire Internet community needs to be involved, including IETF, ISOC, the NICs, etc. 


#### 4. Phill’s presentation for the open meeting


This topic started with a discussion of what should be the boundary for work of the IETF community. Some members believe that the IETF process is in danger of imminent collapse because of irrelevance of the process to the industry, the effort required to get a standard made and loss of the culture of “running code” as an intrinsic part of the standards setting process.
 There is concern that the IAB has become a representative body with nothing to do (other than appeals and other boring stuff). On the other hand, the IESG has the double duty of both championing and evaluating the work. These observations led to the suggestion that the IAB might take on a more active mode in the evolution of the Internet architecture by:

1. identifying important areas that are tailor-made I\* process
2. identifying technologies that we have not standardized that break the net
3. analyzing the process for successfully developing standards

 To do this, we need documented

1. architectural principles and directions for the Internet
2. goals and technical opportunities for the IETF

 To fulfill the goals and opportunities for the IETF, the IAB might

1. proactively work for the creation of WGs in certain areas
2. concern itself with better tracking of WG progress

 This suggests that the role of the IAB be enlarged to include being:

1. maintainer/editor of these two community documents (which, of course, would be developed with community input)
2. in review chain for WG and area charters
3. in appeals chain

 To start with, it was suggested that the IAB could focus on one or two particular areas, inviting in the relevant area directors for a face-to-face meeting as a means to developing the architecture? 


#### 5. IETF budget


Paul Mockapetris provided a preview of his presentation on the breakdown of the budget for IETF meetings, secretariat, etc. The bottom line is that meeting fees are going up because we are meeting the imperative of weaning ourselves from the Federal Government (decreasing by $100k/year for the next few years).
 In addition, he reported the locations of future IETF meetings:


 LA March 4-8  

 Montreal June 24-28  

 San Jose Dec 9-13  

 Memphis April 7-11

### Future Meetings



 Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.  

Meet at the Spring IETF meeting at same time as the social.



---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, AWeinrib@ibeam.intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available online http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins.




---


