
MINUTES FOR AUGUST 13, 1996 IAB TELECONFERENCE
----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Robert Elz  

 Elise Gerich  

 Erik Huizer  

 John Klensin  

 Allison Mankin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

Don Heath

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday September 10, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### ACTIONS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Send message to poised list outlining our conclusions on IANA authority on registry documents.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Chris Weider: “Assigned numbers should be available from an online dictionary”–figure out what to do.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get relevant ISO standards documents (e.g., 10646) available to the IETF community online.
+ John Klensin: Arrange for a presentation on caching and replication at next IETF.
+ Bob Moskowitz and Steve Bellovin: Produce list of goals for security architecture workshop.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden (or someone else) to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions and drafts in progress


 Crypto statement in queue for publication as RFC.  

 Character set workshop draft–will be published as ID by end of next week.  

Address behavior–see below.

#### 2. administrivia


 Harvard conference on Internet operation–well covered by I\* members, who will try to keep it sensible.  

 Brian has been invited to a meeting of the NIST security advisory board meeting; Steve Bellovin will attend.  

Transport AD nominations–committee is making progress. Nomination should be announced by next week.

#### 3. IRTF news


IRTF procedures document last call for BCP has been posted. It will become BCP at end of August unless the last call indicates modifications are required.

#### 4. IESG liaison report


There have been hot discussions on security requirements. Dynamic DNS Updates RFC is being held up by this issue.
 One issue raised is whether RFCs ought to include an attack analysis as a required part–this would provide guidance for users as to the appropriate usage of the protocols. 


#### 5. IPv4 address behaviour (hopefully new draft)


Multi-homed hosts section of draft is causing confusion. We will close on this on the mailing list–Yakov will send multi-homed discussion to the list.

#### 6. IETF and operational resources (registries policies)


Is the Operational Area imploding? Can we ever achieve consensus on this class of issues? This raised the meta-issue of who should be publishing policy documents? and how?
 After considerable discussion, there was general consensus that IANA has been delegated the authority to set policies for address allocation. Thus, documents describing the rules for registries should be from the IANA, not IETF. IANA can (and assumed will) get advice from anyone, both the IETF and others. 


 The discussion then turned to the question of how IANA should publish such documents: as Information RFCs, as BCPs, or perhaps as an entirely new IANA series of documents. 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


