
MINUTES FOR June 11, 1996 IAB TELECONFERENCE
--------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Robert Elz  

 Elise Gerich  

 Erik Huizer  

 John Klensin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

Don Heath

### NEXT MEETING:



 Joint IAB/IESG breakfast 7:00 Monday June 24 in Montreal at the LeCentre Sheraton.  

 Meeting 19:30 Tuesday June 25 at IETF in Montreal.  

Open Session 19:30 Wednesday June 26 at IETF in Montreal.

### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.
+ Jon Crowcroft: Work with Claudio Topolcic to set up a BOF at the next IETF on deploying integrated services, etc.
+ Chris Weider: report on other issues from RFC 1862.
+ John Klensin: Prepare Jim Gettys note as an Internet Draft, so that we can decide whether or not to release it along with the spec. during the next conference call.


### NOTES:


#### 1. last call on any minutes still pending


#### 2. review actions and drafts in progress


 [IRTF charter, Charset workshop report, …]
 IRTF draft shipped  

 Character set: version 2 out to list this morning. Chris will bring it to IETF meeting. 


#### 3. administrivia


IAB dinner: meet at reception at 8:00 on Sunday in Montreal.

#### 4. IESG liaison report


Discussion of concerns about recent proliferation of “end-run” RFCs–RFCs about other protocols that are not on standards track but confuse the market.
 This is a good topic for a joint IAB/IESG breakfast in Montreal. 


#### 5. Agenda for Montreal


Closed meeting:

 security architecture  

character sets
 Open meeting:


 character set workshop report  

 what we have been up to  

IRTF guidelines

 Sollins report on her working group?

security architecture (premature?)


#### 6. security architecture follow-up


Decided not to present at IETF meeting. Instead, Robert Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin and Jeff Schiller will set up an invitational workshop focusing on security architecture in July around the time of USENIX.
 Jeff Schiller will write up an overview of the current state of security in the Internet and Steve Bellovin will write up guidelines for how to address security in protocol design. 


#### 7. son of Clipper


This has been positioned by the government as primarily a political issue: the tradeoff between privacy and law enforcement. The key is to move the debate to securing the network to do commerce.
 Should we write a technical document explaining why key escrow would be expensive, difficult to administer, open to industrial esponiage, etc.? Such a document would have to be rock solid, and not conclude that the scheme would be fine if only these problems were solved. 


#### 8. tunnel protocols (Allison)


NT 4.0 contains PPTP, not an Internet standard, and there are numerous others. Would one would be better than many?
 We want any protocol that comes out with IETF “stamp” (RFC number, etc.) to have undergone IETF standardization process. The tunneling protocols should go through working group process. There will be a BOF in Montreal on this topic. (Should also make the point that the IETF standardization process often results in technically better protocols.) 



### Future Meetings



Open and closed meetings at IETF in Montreal.  

Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


