
MINUTES FOR OCTOBER 8, 1996 IAB TELECONFERENCE
----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Robert Elz  

 Elise Gerich  

 Erik Huizer  

 John Klensin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Abel Weinrib  

Don Heath

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday November 12, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### ACTIONS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Fred Baker: Get feedback from the Operations area directors on proposal that the IAB be the approval body for IANA documents.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter and Fred Baker: Deal with IANA document review issue on next IESG call.
+ Chris Weider: “Assigned numbers should be available from an online dictionary”–figure out what to do.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get relevant ISO standards documents (e.g., 10646) available to the IETF community online.
+ John Klensin: Arrange for a presentation on caching and replication at next IETF.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden (or someone else) to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions and drafts in progress


 Character set report–Chris Weider is indicating that he needs to hand it off to someone else.  

Address behavior–ready to be sent for publication as an ID, then publish as informational RFC.

#### 2. administrivia


Scenario planning… this is an elective activity, but neither before or after the IETF meeting will work. Friday is a possibility, but they want 1.5 days. Try to converge over email.

#### 3. IRTF news


#### 4. IESG liaison report


#### 5. security workshop – goals


Outline of goals and proposed agenda sent to the IAB list.
 Attendance will be IAB and IESG members, plus additional participants identified by the security directorate. The goal is to get together people representing the full spectrum (IESG, IAB, etc.) of knowledge of security and protocols that require security to educate each other and identify opportunities and holes. 


 Steve Bellovin and Bob Moskowitz will write a report promptly. 


 Bell Labs will host the meeting at Murray Hill. Proposed date late February or early March; constraint is to have report ready for presentation at Spring IETF meeting. 


#### 6. nominate 2 members for ad hoc TLD committee – we need to get done!


Discussions were held by all; Brian Carpenter will now approach the top two candidates and invite them to serve.

#### 7. IANA documents (aka “IETF and operational resources”)


Looking for feedback from Operations area directors, but none has been forthcoming.

#### 8. PANIX attack, any follow up?


After PANIX attack, the CERT put out an advisory that ISPs should impose source filtering. They are worried that this breaks mobile IP. What should be done?
 There was considerable discussion around the architectural principle that the source address should be where the packet is coming from. This leads to sub-optimal routes for Mobile IP, although in practice you often need to tunnel to your home network in any case for security considerations.
 


 Decided to ask the area director for Routing to inform the Mobile IP working group that their protocol is at risk of being broken, and ask them to figure out how to fix it. 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


