
MINUTES FOR NOVEMBER 12, 1996 IAB TELECONFERENCE
------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 John Klensin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

Don Heath

### NEXT MEETING:



Business meeting at San Jose IETF 7:30 Tuesday evening December 10; open meeting Wednesday evening December 11.


### ACTIONS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Fred Baker and Brian Carpenter: Get feedback from the Operations Area directors on proposal that the IAB be the approval body for IANA documents–deal with IANA document review issue.
+ Chris Weider: “Assigned numbers should be available from an online dictionary”–figure out what to do.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get relevant ISO standards documents (e.g., 10646) available to the IETF community online.
+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden (or someone else) to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions and drafts in progress


 “Address behavior” in queue at RFC editor.  

“Character set” draft in ID queue.

#### 2. administrivia


#### 3. IRTF news


Discussions underway on creation of a RG on policy for resource reservation.

#### 4. IESG liaison report


#### 5. security workshop – finalize goals & date


 Preliminary agenda has been sent to the IAB list by Robert Moskowitz.  

 Time frame: late February, early March at AT&T Labs in New Jersey.  

Goal is 20-30 attendees. Will ask Security AD and IAB members with expertise on security for suggestions of people to invite; will also ping NomComm. IAB and IESG will be invited, but will be discouraged from all attending.

#### 6. IAHC report


 Press release is being drafted; should be released today.  

 Hope to finish work by end of year.  

They would like to present a short Q&A during the open IAB meeting time, chaired by Don Heath.

#### 7. plan San Jose meetings


Business meeting:

 year 2000 issues  

 int-serv/rsvp/issll/qosr/mmusic/avt–what is missing? (Jon Crowcroft)  

 document desirable features of protocols (Radia Perlman)  

 “the IAB is still not doing enough architecture”

 > still doing a lot of policy–how else could this be handled?  

 use IAHC experience to address this
 Open meeting:


 report on recent IAB activities

 address behavior
 open mike  

 IAHC presentation



### Future Meetings



 Joint breakfast meetings with IESG.  

 Business meeting at San Jose IETF 7:30 Tuesday evening December 10;  

 open meeting Wednesday evening December 11.  

 Dinner proposed Tuesday evening.  

Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


