
MINUTES FOR MAY 14, 1996 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Robert Elz  

 Erik Huizer  

 John Klensin  

 Allison Mankin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

Don Heath

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday June 11, 10-12 Eastern Time.

### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.
+ Jon Crowcroft: Work with Claudio Topolcic to set up a BOF at the next IETF on deploying integrated services, etc.
+ Steve Bellovin and Robert Moskowitz: Look into making a presentation at the Security Area meeting in Montreal, coordinating with Jeff Schiller.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Chris Weider: report on other issues from RFC 1862.
+ John Klensin: Prepare Jim Gettys note as an Internet Draft, so that we can decide whether or not to release it along with the spec. during the next conference call.
+ Abel Weinrib: Develop a draft document outlining the rules, practices, etc. for the Internet Research Task Force. Emphasize open publishing of results.


### NOTES:


#### 1. last call on any minutes still pending


 April 9 minutes in last call.  

Proposed revisions to March 5 minutes were accepted.

#### 2. review actions and drafts in progress


 [IRTF charter, Charset workshop report, “principles”]
 IRTF charter will be published as a draft after one more iteration and request for comments from IESG and IAB.  

 Charset workshop report real soon now.  

 “Principles” passed last call and will be published.


#### 3. administrivia (Montreal closed meeting scheduling)


 Closed meeting: Tuesday evening, 7:30PM.  

Possible dinner Sunday evening; will poll IAB mailing list to gauge interest.

#### 4. IESG liaison report


“The IAB joined the IESG in commending Scott Bradner and Allison Mankin for the outstanding job they performed as co-Area Directors of the IPNG Area, and thanked them for having taken on the job.”
 Topics for joint IAB/IESG breakfast Monday morning:


 security  

 IPv4 future vs. IPv6 deployment
#### 5. IRTF procedures (introduced by Abel)


There was some feeling that the existence of the IRSG (Internet Research Steering Group) adds little to the procedures, and that the IAB could act in this role. Consensus was not reached on this issue. Instead, it was agreed that the document should more explicitly spell out the role that the IAB has in managing the IRTF. In particular, it should make clear that the IRTF Chair is appointed by the IAB, and that the IAB “approves” IRTF research group charters.
 Process for gaining community consensus


 last call for comments from IAB and IESG  

 publish as a draft  

 last call on IETF list  

 publish as RFC
#### 6. TLD registry plan (draft-postel-iana-itld-admin-00.txt)


This document spells out some work for the IAB to do:
1. appoint people to ad hoc committee that evaluates new registries
2. act as part of appeals process:  

 technical appeals to lower-level group  

 process appeals to IAB  

 fairness appeals to ISOC

No one expressed discomfort with these roles for the IAB.


 However, there was then a lively discussion about the proposal, the need for better navigation tools, etc. The never-ending problem of trademarks and DNS names was addressed, with the amateur trademark lawyers among us asserting that multiple domains don’t help with trademark problems unless TLDs are explicitly segmented by trade. 


 Overall, this proposal does not appear to have consensus from the IESG and IAB. Perhaps we need a separate memo that addresses some of the concerns.
 


#### 7. accounting and such (discussion introduced by Jon C)


Jon Crowcroft sent a document to the list, outlining a proposal to keep people from overloading the network by pricing scarce capacity appropriately. The scheme is to allocate resources/assign higher priority according to CIDRD prefixes, leaving it up to the owner of the address to decide how to allocate these high priority ones. Any router that can do RSVP will have the hooks required, but this scheme does not require that RSVP be deployed in the near term. Eventually, it will tie into full-featured RSVP-based dynamic allocation and policy mechanisms.
 One example would be to use the scheme to give priority to, for instance, a national caching services. 


 Jon Crowcroft will work with Claudio Topolcic to set up a BOF at the next IETF on deploying integrated services, etc. 


#### 8. security architecture (discussion introduced by Steve B and Bob M)


An outline of organized thoughts was sent to the list.
 Many people are building piece-parts for security without figuring out how these different pieces should be used. (This could be called the “Let a thousand thorns bloom…” approach.) It was generally agreed that, while many of these pieces will prove to be valuable, we need a security architecture to guide how the pieces are to be used and ensure that the right pieces are created. 


 Clearly, we need to involve Jeff Schiller in this discussion. We should propose that it be a topic for the IESG/IAB joint breakfast in Montreal, and explore making a presentation at the Security Area meeting at Montreal.
 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


