
MINUTES FOR MARCH 11, 1997 IAB TELECONFERENCE
---------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Robert Elz  

 Erik Huizer  

 John Klensin  

 Allison Mankin  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

 Yakov Rekhter  

 Chris Weider  

 Abel Weinrib  

 Don Heath  

 Steve Deering  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Tony Hain  

Cyndi Jung

### NEXT MEETING:


Memphis:

 Face-to-face business meeting, Tuesday April 8, 7:30 PM.  

Open IAB, Wednesday April 9, 8:00-10:00.

### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Abel Weinrib: publicize new IRTF Web page.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Get Bob Hinden and Bob Fink to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Jon Crowcroft: Document end-to-end QOS architecture for multi-provider Internet.
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
* Chris Weider: Character set workshop report.
* Brian Carpenter: Comments on pricing in int-serv, etc.
* Robert Elz, John Klensin: Appropriate use of precedence and TOS bits in IPv4.
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report


### NOTES:


#### review actions and drafts in progress

- Brian Carpenter’s AR, “Get relevant ISO standards documents (e.g., 10646) available to the IETF community online” is now closed. Harald Alvestrandis is now liaison with SC2 and will make sure it happens.
- Character set workshop report is with RFC editor.

#### administrivia


Should we move the time of the regular teleconferences to an hour later now that many members are from the US West Coast? Question tabled until first teleconference of new IAB.

#### IRTF news


Check out new Web page at www.irtf.org.

#### IESG liaison report


#### Report on Security Workshop


The workshop will result in several documents, drafts of which should be out in the next month, published as RFCs by Munich:

 guidelines for writing security considerations  

 minimum attack environment  

 implementation hints and guidelines  

 firewall-friendly protocol design  

 workshop report – Steve Bellovin
 At the Memphis Monday morning plenary, Fred Baker will report that the workshop happened and point people to the open IAB meeting for more details. 


 The point was made that we need to follow up whatever is said about new security requirements for protocols with actual documents that make concrete the new requirements. 


#### QOS Architecture


It was generally agreed that the community would benefit from an overview informational RFC that defines terminology, framework, architecture, etc. for QOS on the Internet. It turns out that there are many mutually-inconsistent views of these matters, which makes communication and progress difficult.
 Jon Crowcroft will work to get the appropriate people to write down the overall QOS architecture. 


#### IAHC


The IAB is pleased to acknowledge the hard work and considerable consultation with the community undertaken by the International Ad Hoc Committee (IAHC) in preparing their final report on the administration and management of the Domain Name Service (DNS) “generic” Top Level Domain registration process. The IAB joins with the rest of the community in thanking them for their efforts.
 The Domain Name Service has become an integral and crucial part of Internet operation. It has more than 10 years of operational history, working reliably and efficiently. The IAB believes that any changes to the DNS need to be performed incrementally, carefully ensuring continuance of that stable and efficient operation. 


 The IAHC report calls for shared registries, in which multiple, competing registrars allocate domain names on a first-come, first served basis. This will be a new capability for the DNS. The IAB feels that there is little technical difficulty in achieving this sharing–simple transactional database procedures are directly applicable as long as the number of registries sharing a name space is not too large. Although no current open standards are sufficient to the task, the technology for such sharing is readily available, today, from proprietary sources. The IAB encourages development of relevant open standards in the IETF. 


 Another issue discussed was that tools that use heuristics to do domain name completion will break as multiple TLDs are deployed, although these tools already break in some present situations. Opinions were divided as to whether this is a problem: some people thought this was bad, others that such heuristics are a bad thing anyway, so breaking them does not matter. 


#### Prepare for Memphis


Business meeting: 

 Prepare for open IAB.
 Open IAB: 


 Security workshop report.  

 Quality of service (tentative).  

 What should be in protocols (tentative).

### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


