
MINUTES FOR JUNE 17, 1997 IAB TELECONFERENCE
--------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Robert Elz  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cyndi Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday July 15, 10-12 Eastern Time (NOTE: one week later than “usual” date).

### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Erik Huizer: Create first cut on middleware/network services (service location, directories, overloading of http, etc.)
+ Steve Deering: Create first cut on routing and address architectures, including multicast.
+ Abel Weinrib: publicize new IRTF Web page.
+ Tony Hain, Charles Perkins (will coauthor): Get Bob Hinden and Bob Fink to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter and Eric Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
* Jon Crowcroft and Brian Carpenter: Document end-to-end QOS architecture for multi-provider Internet.
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
* Robert Elz, John Klensin: Appropriate use of precedence and TOS bits in IPv4 (end-to-end vs. end-to-cloud, IPSEC implications, etc.).
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.


### NOTES:


#### review actions and drafts in progress


#### administrivia


 Next teleconference moved to July 15.  

Face-to-face IAB business meeting in Munich Tuesday evening (tentative).

#### IRTF news


Proposed Routing Research Group discussed.

#### IESG liaison


#### IAHC, etc.


Request from Dave Crocker that we review technical arguments for and against the IAHC proposal. Brian Carpenter asked that he provide details of the technical statements to be reviewed, which have not yet arrived.

#### Appropriate use of TOS bits


There was general consensus that the three PRECEDENCE bits in the IP datagram SERVICE TYPE field may be modified by routers within the network; the remaining five bits of the SERVICE TYPE field (the four bits informally called the “type of service” bits and the one unused bit) may not be modified by the network, and should be used as specified to indicate the type of transport required. The SERVICE TYPE field is not included in the IPSEC checksum, so changing the PRECEDENCE bits will not break IPSEC.

#### Honors and awards


Congratulations to Jon Postel on winning this year’s SigComm medal!


### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


