
MINUTES FOR SEPTEMBER 9, 1997 IAB TELECONFERENCE
------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Tony Hain  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cyndi Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday October 14, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Keith Moore: Bring RSA letter to Scott Bradner’s attention as ISOC vice president for standards.
+ Abel Weinrib: Inform organizers of China Internet conference that no IAB member has definite plans to attend. Wish them luck.
+ Brian Carpenter: Propose to POISSON working group that the NomCom be charged with appointing future POC members.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Steve Bellovin: Review SASL draft.
+ Keith Moore, John Klensin: Form an IETF BOF on technical measures to deal with spamming.
+ Erik Huizer: Investigate whether the IAB should sponsor work on an Internet Network Management Architecture
+ Brian Carpenter: Send message to DAVIC, explain the IETF’s role.
+ Steve Deering, Radia Perlman, Cyndi Jung: Plan Routing & Addressing workshop with Joel Halpern and Sue Hares.
+ Abel Weinrib: publicize new IRTF Web page.
+ Tony Hain, Charles Perkins (will coauthor): Get Bob Hinden and Bob Fink to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.


### DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Jon Crowcroft, Steve Deering: Entirely new QOS related draft
* Brian Carpenter and Eric Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

Tony Hain, Charles Perkins (will coauthor): Get Bob Hinden and Bob Fink to produce a document articulating the technical value of IPv6 beyond large addresses.–Bay Networks document looks good; can add header stating that the IAB reviewed and requested that it be published as an RFC.


#### 2. review drafts in progress

Jon Crowcroft, Steve Deering: Entirely new QOS related draft–no longer required, since int-serv working group appears to be on track following Munich.


 Brian Carpenter and Eric Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601)–still open.
 


 Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols–still open. 


 Steve Bellovin: Security workshop reports–still open, will be done before next IETF. 


#### 3. administrivia

Tony Hain most likely can serve as liaison to this year’s NomCom. Will finalize by email. Charlie Perkins will serve if Tony can not. Tony has since agreed to serve.


 IESG retreat scheduled for Nov. 10-11 in Boston. No agenda yet. John Klensin is willing to attend if necessary.


 Internet meeting in China Nov. 10–they claim to have IAB attendance, but at present no one from IAB is going. 


#### 4. IRTF news

Routing research group will be formed. IAB routing workshop will coordinate and provide guidance to the group.


#### 5. IESG liaison report

A letter from RSA lawyer on S/MIME standards setting in IETF has been sent to a few members of the IAB. This issue needs to be forwarded to Scott Bradner as ISOC vice president for standards, who can work with Brian Carpenter to determine how to respond. Until then, individual IAB members should probably resist replying.


#### 6. Decisions on routing/addressing workshop


 Possible dates: First week in February; week before Spring IETF  

 Locations: Telluride; San Jose  

First-cut attendees:

 Interested IAB members

 Steve Deering, Robert Elz, Radia Perlman, Brian Carpenter, Cyndi Jung, Charlie Perkins
 Interested IESG members


 Joel Halpern, Fred Baker, Mike O’Dell, selected other members who request an invitation
 IRTF Routing RG chair-to-be Sue Hares  

 Other experts–ask for Joel’s help to focus group


 selected chairs of routing area working groups  

 multicast routing experts  

 unicast routing experts
#### 7. Should we designate alternate POC members, and should the regular NomCom handle next year’s POC seat?

The IAB does not see any need to explicitly designate alternates–we can act rapidly in the unlikely event a replacement becomes necessary. General agreement that it would be good to have the NomCom appoint future POC members and to request that POISSON consider this change. The NomCom already has processes in place and is chartered to make such appointments; the IAB does not. This would make them IETF appointees rather than IAB appointees, which would probably be a good thing for those few people who would notice the difference.


#### 8. Irritating behaviors of some/many existing Internet tools

A long discussion on the irritating behavior of many Internet tools (e.g., popular mail packages) led to agreement that it would be good for the IAB to maintain a list of work that needs to be done–e.g., proper behavior of email clients and gateways, firewalls, etc. A prerequisite is putting together a list of what the IETF is currently working on.




### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


