
MINUTES FOR MARCH 10, 1998 IAB TELECONFERENCE
---------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

 Robert Elz  

 Tony Hain  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cyndi Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Radia Perlman  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



 Business meeting at LA IETF, 7:30 PM Tuesday March 31 (dinner at 6:30).  

April teleconference cancelled. Next teleconference Tuesday May 12.


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Send note to IETF list outlining IAB role and response re. green paper issues.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Jon Postel (IANA): Build consensus on how to assign IPv6 addresses–get the registries to do something or perhaps form a BOF on the issue.
+ Abel Weinrib: Make sure there is at least one plenary presentation at next IETF from an IRTF group.
+ Tony Hain: Put together a crisp problem statement for the NAT/VPN/IPv6 problem.
+ Steve Deering, Radia Perlman, Cyndi Jung: Plan Routing & Addressing workshop with Joel Halpern and Sue Hares.


### DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.
* Charlie Perkins: Technical value of IPv6.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

+ Jon Postel (IANA): Build consensus on how to assign IPv6 addresses–get the registries to do something or perhaps form a BOF on the issue.–open. Jon sent mail to registries, got a few notes back, but not much action.
+ Abel Weinrib: Make sure there is at least one plenary presentation at next IETF from an IRTF group.–done
+ Tony Hain: Put together a crisp problem statement for the NAT/VPN/IPv6 problem.–open
+ Steve Deering, Radia Perlman, Cyndi Jung: Plan Routing & Addressing workshop with Joel Halpern and Sue Hares.–done

#### 2. review drafts in progress

+ Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).–on hold
+ Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.–open
+ Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.–open
+ Charlie Perkins: Technical value of IPv6.–open

#### 3. administrivia


 Will arrange for dinner starting at 6:30 Tuesday March 31.   

 Brian will invite new members of the IAB.  

Agreed to cancel April IAB teleconference.

#### 4. IRTF news


 Iterating charter for management group.  

Bob Braden will present on end-to-end group at IETF plenary.

#### 5. IESG liaison report


 NAT working group created…  

 iptel working group about to be formed.  

Discussion of proper mix of skills for Network Management area director; suggestions of names should be sent to NomCom as soon as possible.

#### 6. Final preparation for routing workshop

On track… Positive sign is that every invitee accepted the invitation.


 Charlie Perkins and Sue Hares have volunteered to take notes. They (and Radia and Steve) have committed that the workshop report will be published in a timely fashion. 


#### 7. Prepare for LA IETF

Business meeting on Tuesday:


 Welcome new IAB members.  

Prepare workshop report for plenary.

 NATs and need for followon workshop.
Work plan for coming year.


 Numerous location protocols.  

 Tunnelling.
Green paper issues–we provided guidance to ISOC for their input on the green paper, which is what we are chartered to do, but the community perceives that the IAB is being passive. Discuss?


 Plenary on Friday: 


 IRTF presentation by Bob Braden.  

 Routing workshop overview by Radia and Steve.

### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


