
MINUTES FOR JUNE 9, 1998 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday July 14, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Brian Carpenter: Send note to ISOC that we approve of the proposed RFC Editor contract.
+ Brian Carpenter: Draft statement of support for white paper in general, creation of new IANA organization in particular, etc. Publish as press release through ISOC.

### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem.
	- Recruit Robert Elz and/or Mike St. Johns?
+ Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	
	 =
	- Talk to security ADs to make sure they take it seriously. Base on Chris Newman’s draft, which should also cover RADIUS and DIAMETER.
+ Steve Deering: Figure out five year routing roadmap actions based on workshop report
	- On hold until we have routing workshop report.
+ Brian Carpenter: Send note to IETF list outlining IAB role and response re. green paper issues.
	- Done.
+ Jon Postel (IANA): Build consensus on how to assign IPv6 addresses–get the registries to do something or perhaps form a BOF on the issue.
	- Draft appeared; revised version soon. Registries are discussing.
+ Tony Hain: Put together a crisp problem statement for the NAT/VPN/IPv6 problem.
	- Draft has been sent to interested members of the community for comments.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Draft will be sent to IAB list before July meeting. Architectural confusion exists, but resolution will be difficult.
* Keith Moore and Charlie Perkins : “Finding stuff” issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft to list within a week.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman, Sue Hares: Routing workshop report.
	+ Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ Ongoing.
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
	+ Ongoing. No apparent progress recently.
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.
	+ Done. Published as RFC 2316.
* Charlie Perkins: Technical value of IPv6.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions and drafts in progress


#### 2. administrivia


#### 3. IRTF news

Working to get them to add people with multicast expertise in addition to their security expertise. What about Starburst, Tibco, A/V conferencing types?


#### 4. IESG liaison report


 Discussion ongoing on working group procedures.  

Applications area disbanded its directorate when Patrik Faltstrom came on board. Looking to create an advisory council on area-wide architectural issues. Core will be IESG and IAB people with apps interest and expertise. Goal is to attract new blood.

#### 5. POC nominations progress review

IAB issued call for nomination, expires on June 24th. A number of nominations have been received. Nominations should be sent to pocnom@iab.org.


#### 6. White paper and the new IANA

US government white paper has been published. Conclusion is that a new organization should be formed for the Internet community to regulate itself. The US government will “bless it” once the organization has been formed. The organization should be formed by community consensus.


 The difficult part is now how to form consensus and get the organization formed.
 


 **Consensus:** The IAB should put its support behind this new organization.  

  

 Agreed that at this time the IAB should express:


 General support for white paper;  

 specific support for creation of new organization;  

 need for consensus to create new IANA as soon as possible;  

 the new IANA should be built around the existing one.
#### 7. RFC Editor contract

Consensus: We approve of the proposed RFC Editor contract.



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


