
MINUTES FOR AUGUST 23, 1998 IAB MEETING
---------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday September 15, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### NOTES:


#### IANA status

Jon Postel presented a summary of his planned plenary presentation on Wednesday, outlining the proposal to form a new independent IANA organization.


 The IAB agreed that at the open plenary Brian should state that the IAB endorses the IANA bylaws; that the technical (I\*) IANA board members should be chosen by existing IETF NomComm procedure; and that we want to measure IETF community support for this position. 


#### NATs, firewalls, etc.

The discussion opened with an IAB member commenting that he has to get through two NATs to get to the Internet from his home machines. His comment: it’s hard–ordinary people should not try this at home.


 The discussion concluded that firewalls and NATs are architecturally quite different:

- Firewalls are simply doing access control, although perhaps in a messy way. Because we want firewalls to be invisible, we don’t expect them to follow the rules. Some protocols are more firewall friendly (e.g., MX records and HTTP redirects).
- NATs do random modifications of packets by an (invisible) third party.

 Question: Are we going to end up with an Internet on which you can actually use IPSEC end to end? Consensus… sadly, no. But, IPSEC in NT5 may help drive demand for the right architecture into the corporations. 


#### Mobility

Overview of work on Mobile Wireless protocols:

- Roaming and Mobile IP–issue is that the names of working groups are confusing; hard to understand what each is solving.
- MNCRS–mobile network computer roaming service; a consortium. Part of Internet model. Java-based…
- WAP–wireless access protocol. They’ve decided can’t use TCP/IP because of header overhead; already have reliable link layer. Every digital phone will be a WAP device.

 Do we need to encourage formation of a working group focusing on IP over low-speed mobile wireless? Get a BOF at next IETF. 


 Lots of different problems associated with portable computers moving around the Internet. Bob Moskowitz and Charlie Perkins could tie this in with their tunneling protocol document. Good to have a taxonomy for portable computers on the Internet. 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


