
MINUTES FOR DECEMBER 8, 1998 IAB BIZ MEETING
--------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Bob Braden (RFC Editor liaison)  

 Scott Bradner (invited as ISOC VP Standards)  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday January 12, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Send message to Herb Schorr that the IAB is extending the delegation of the IANA functions to ISI for another three months.
* Brian Carpenter: Send request to IANA that it do first allocation of IPv6 addresses to regional registries.
* Charlie Perkins: Propose plan for IAB workshop on wireless networking.
* Keith Moore: Propose plan for IAB scenario planning workshop.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem. [Get clear applicability statement published.]
	+ Open.
* Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	+ Open. On track.
* Steve Deering: Figure out five year routing roadmap actions based on workshop report.
	+ On hold until we have routing workshop report.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Sent to IESG for comment. Transport Area directors would like to use the document as the “problems with NAT” document from the NAT Working Group.
	+ Comments from Area Directors and the working group will be forthcoming.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft by February teleconference.
* Keith Moore and Charlie Perkins: “Finding stuff” issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Published as ID. Ongoing.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman: Routing workshop report.
	+ Overview published as ID. Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ On hold.
* Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Published as ID. Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review drafts in progress


#### 2. BOFs (off-the-cuff, capsule reviews)


 aaa: confused.  

 ruts: looking for muxing and “cancelling” packets in the queue, light-weight open and data in first packet  

 vpn: confused and unfocused.  

 impp: will need careful supervision.  

 httpng: will not become working group. They want transport muxing too.  

 qosmc: two requirements: signaling for qos/multicast setup; additions to multicast to add user identity.  

webrepl: caching at “level 4”, explicit replication service.

#### 3. IANA, ICANN, RFC Editor

The IAB reviewed the latest information about ICANN prior to the POISSON session later in the week.


 RFC Editor: Proposes to require authors to submit IDs with boilerplate already in place–this deals with copyright problems, giving ISOC the right to publish, and the right to do derivative works for any document on standards track. 


 The IAB requested Scott Bradner to clarify with ISOC that decisions on the RFC Editor contract are to be made with the IAB on behalf of the IETF, not by ISOC on its own. 


 IANA: IAB needs to renew the delegation of the IANA functions to ISI for another three month period. 


#### 4. IPv6 address allocation

Regional registries need to start allocating IPv6 addresses. The IAB will request the IANA to do a first allocation. The ICANN address support organization won’t be formed until March ICANN meeting. The IAB suggests that the Chairs of the IPng IETF working group propose a policy for long term allocation of IPv6 addresses to ICANN for them to consider.


#### 5. End-to-end issues



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


