
MINUTES FOR AUGUST 4, 1998 IAB TELECONFERENCE
---------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:


Face-to-face biz meeting 8:30PM Sunday August 23 in Chicago.




### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Steve Deering: Send current draft IPv6 address allocation document to IESG.
	+ Brought up by Thomas Narten to IESG. Done.
* Steve Bellovin: Draft IAB statement on “private doorbell” encryption proposal.
	+ First draft done. Will add need for finer grain security models, leading to end-to-end security, which breaks the proposal. (Make it a press release?)
* Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem. [Make sure clear applicability statement is published.]
	+ Open. Will gather interested parties at Chicago.
* Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	+ Open. Make sure interested people go to the AAA BOF in Chicago. Suggest Chris present at the BOF.
* Steve Deering: Figure out five year routing roadmap actions based on workshop report.
	+ On hold until we have routing workshop report.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN/IPv6
	+ Ongoing. Draft will be submitted by Chicago deadline. Suggestion that this and the next document be combined. Arguments against is the need to separate IPv6 issues from security/firewall issues. Both documents speak to the value of the “end-to-end model.”
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft will be submitted by Chicago deadline.
* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Keith Moore and Charlie Perkins: “Finding stuff” issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Will hold BOF at IETF.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman, Sue Hares: Routing workshop report.
	+ Ongoing. Rough draft received from Sue. Looking like 50 pages long…  
	
	 Next step is creating a summary report outlining conclusions, etc.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ Ongoing. On hold until IANA rechartered.
* Charlie Perkins: Technical value of IPv6.
	+ Ongoing. Will issue before IETF draft deadline.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions


#### 2. review drafts in progress


#### 3. administrivia


#### 4. IRTF news

Chicago plenary slot obtained; now finding an IRTF speaker.


#### 5. IESG liaison report


 Ongoing debates about URI vs. URL, etc.  

 Provisional approval of IPSEC to Proposed Standard!  

Provisional approval of IPv6 to Draft Standard!

#### 6. new IANA news

Discussions ongoing re. structure of organization, roles and responsibilities of board members, etc.


 For Singapore meeting, John Klensin is attending. Also agreed that Robert Elz should be asked to represent the IAB at the meeting as well. 


#### 7. Chicago BOFs

Will coordinate by email, finalize at Chicago business meeting.


#### 8. Chicago business meeting topics


 Ongoing draft topics  

Mobility (?)


### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


