
MINUTES FOR FEBRUARY 10, 1998 IAB TELECONFERENCE
------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Robert Elz  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cyndi Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Robert Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Jon Postel  

 Abel Weinrib  

Scott Bradner, special guest

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday March 10, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### ACTION ITEMS:


#### NEW ACTION ITEMS:

+ Jon Postel (IANA): Build consensus on how to assign IPv6 addresses–get the registries to do something or perhaps form a BOF on the issue.

#### OLD ACTION ITEMS:

+ Steve Deering: Send current agenda and invitee list for the IAB Routing Workshop.
+ Abel Weinrib: Make sure there is at least one plenary presentation at next IETF from an IRTF group
+ Abel Weinrib: Suggest to IESG that they add chairs of relevant IRTF groups to the appropriate area directorates
+ Tony Hain: Put together a crisp problem statement for the NAT/VPN/IPv6 problem.
+ Steve Bellovin: Review SASL draft.
+ Steve Deering, Radia Perlman, Cyndi Jung: Plan Routing & Addressing workshop with Joel Halpern and Sue Hares.


### DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
* Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
* Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

+ Steve Deering: Send current agenda and invitee list for the IAB Routing Workshop.–done.
+ Abel Weinrib: Make sure there is at least one plenary presentation at next IETF from an IRTF group.–in progress.
+ Abel Weinrib: Suggest to IESG that they add chairs of relevant IRTF groups to the appropriate area directorates.–OBE
+ Tony Hain: Put together a crisp problem statement for the NAT/VPN/IPv6 problem.
+ Steve Bellovin: Review SASL draft.–OBE.
+ Steve Deering, Radia Perlman, Cyndi Jung: Plan Routing & Addressing workshop with Joel Halpern and Sue Hares.–ongoing.

#### 2. review drafts in progress

+ Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).–on hold.
+ Radia Perlman: What should be in protocols.
+ Steve Bellovin: Security workshop report.

#### 3. administrivia

Business meeting will be scheduled evening of the social. Brian has asked Mike St. Johns to let new IAB members know in advance.


#### 4. IRTF news

Management group–discussion underway.


#### 5. IESG liaison report


#### 6. IANA/RFC Editor future (with Scott Bradner, ISOC VP Standards)

The IANA and others have proposed that the IANA should create an advisory group to help with the transition. Message is that the IANA has chosen to do this–it is not imposed by anyone else. Consensus that the IAB should jointly announce with the IANA the formation of the advisory group.


 Concern was expressed that at least one proposed member of this group should be non-US citizen working for a non-US company. One problem is that the group with its proposed membership does not necessarily overcome the perception rampant among some people that there is an “old boys’ network of researchers” running things. 


 What public response should the IAB make on the Magaziner green paper? So far, IAB has been very passive. Is it time for us to step up to our responsibilities and become more active? Is there consensus within the IAB for any single position? 


 One problem with the green paper is that it totally ignores the work of the IAHC/POC. Perhaps we should make more of a blanket statement that a lot of other work has been done that is not recognized in the green paper, without talking about the IAHC/POC explicitly. 


 Lots of concern that NSI remains in a privileged position, without adequate competition. 


 Consensus that some statement, building on Brian’s draft, should be submitted from the IAB during the comment period. Aim to put together by March 3. 


 Re. IANA futures:  

 The IAB requests the ISOC to fund the RFC editor function, since this function is a key component of the IETF standards setting process. This may cause some short-term funding issues for ISOC, which need to be addressed. The proposal is that the IAB represent the technical and protocol engineering constituency in the new structure. 


 *(The IAB congratulates Jon on the god-like quality of his picture in Fortune magazine.)* 


#### 7. March workshop review


 Steve sent mail to the list.  

Agenda has been tuned to focus

#### 8. (executive session) IESG nominations

After various discussions on the candidates selected by the nomcom, and reports from the IAB’s liaison to the nomcom, the IAB approved the slate of IESG candidates.



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


