
MINUTES FOR SEPTEMBER 15, 1998 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Jon Postel  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday October 13, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Publish (email) IAB statement on “private doorbell” encryption proposal.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Charlie Perkins: Arrange BOF on IP over low-speed wireless for December IETF.
* Steve Bellovin: Draft IAB statement on “private doorbell” encryption proposal.
	+ Done; now publish via email as IAB statement.
* Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem. [Get clear applicability statement published.]
	+ Open.
* Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering: Figure out five year routing roadmap actions based on workshop report.
	+ On hold until we have routing workshop report.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN/IPv6
	+ Ongoing. Document presented to NAT working group; but working group minutes refers to this document as “anti NAT” document. One more editing pass on document, heads up to working group, then publish (before Orlando).
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Request for feedback has unearthed interesting resource material; following up.
* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft in October.
* Keith Moore and Charlie Perkins: “Finding stuff” issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Finding Stuff BOF discussed some issues, but there remain open architecture issues.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman: Routing workshop report.
	+ Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ On hold.
* Charlie Perkins: Technical value of IPv6.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions; review drafts in progress


#### 2. administrivia

NomCom liaison: Steve Bellovin volunteered; his offer to serve was accepted with universal acclaim.


#### 3. IRTF news


#### 4. IESG liaison report


#### 5. new IANA news

Dialog ongoing with NSI. Goal is to be able to say that old IANA and Network Solutions both support the proposal.


 Now working on composition of initial board. 


 Looking for additional corporate endorsements. 


#### 6. AAA BOF

Mailing list set up. Lots of activity.


 One issue that is appearing is need for “reliable UDP” to allow for out-of-order delivery of large “control” messages. One possibility is MDTP (current Internet Draft); also could revisit TTCP work of end-to-end research group.
 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


