
MINUTES FOR JUNE 15, 1999 IAB TELECONFERENCE
--------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Rob Austein  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath (ISOC liaison)  

 Tim Howes  

 Geoff Huston  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore (IESG liaison)  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)

### NEXT MEETING:



Face-face business meeting in Oslo Sunday July 11, 7:30.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Steve Bellovin: Post on IETF Web site a list of common security attacks.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* John Klensin and Rob Austein: Organize mini-workshop in Oslo on DNS scaling concerns.
	+ Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter, Erik Huizer: Plan “Network Layer Futures” IAB workshop.
	+ Done.
* Fred Baker, Charlie Perkins: Plan IAB workshop on wireless/mobility.
	+ Open. Still waiting for a proposed date.
* Steve Deering: Organize a BOF on anycast addressing.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering: Make sure routing ADs are aware of multi-stranding routing.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering: Suggest to Routing Area ADs that they consider work on QOS-, TOS- and constraint-based routing.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering: Ask Routing Research Group to study what is breaking routing in the default-free zone and analyze multicast routing.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Figure out what was actually meant by the routing workshop item on SNMPv3 authentication, rate limiting, etc.; send to O&M ADs.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Get detailed routing workshop notes published on IAB web site.
	+ Open.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter: Transparency
	+ Ongoing. Expect to modify after IAB Utrecht workshop.
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Ongoing. Received no comments. Will publish.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft out before Utrecht workshop.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing. Might be out by Draft cutoff date.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ On hold.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Ongoing. Review comments to be incorporated.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

see above


#### 2. review drafts in progress

see above


#### 3. administrivia

Olso face-face meeting Sunday at 7:30.


#### 4. IRTF news

Erik is arranging a face-face with research group chairs in Oslo.


#### 5. IESG liaison report

Fred Baker reported on variety of discussions at IESG retreat:

- security considerations section–will continue to require, believe reasonably successful at getting attention to security.  

 Question raised whether the IAB should hold a third security workshop? Not in ’99, and will need to examine what we would expect to accomplish. One possibility is to develop better threat models.
- informational RFCs–discussion re. should we continue to publish all random document submitted, rather than focusing on results from IETF Working Groups. Demands significant attention from IESG (could some of this be delegated to Area Directorates?). Two concerns: informational RFCs used for marketing purposes; informational RFCs that should have come through a working group. Continue discussions at an Oslo breakfast meeting.
- scaling of IETF meetings–skills/training of working group chairs, design teams, etc.
- advancing IPv6 beyond where it is today–reluctant to do this until have more deployment.
- W3C–they go in their own direction, and expect us to follow; we need to work better together.
- informational RFCs–standards track documents that are submitted by individuals, but would probably benefit from working group attention. Need to encourage them to engage with others in the community.
- Old RFCs that are stuck at Proposed Standard level–clean up database, move to historical, etc.
- Is the IESG doing the right job?–chartering groups vs. perfecting documents, etc.

#### 6. ICANN/IANA/PSO status

ETSI is eager to get involved in the PSO. It is planned to have the PSO MOU ready for signature in Oslo. The IAB is also working on an IANA MOU.


#### 7. Simpson appeal status

We will use the same procedure as already established in previous appeals. Brian Carpenter will send these procedures to Bill Simpson and also to the IETF list.


#### 8. Prepare for Oslo IETF

Everyone should send topics for discussion to the list.



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


