
MINUTES FOR SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Ran Atkinson  

 Harald Alvestrand  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer (IRTF Chair)  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore (IESG liaison)  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)


### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference 10-12 US Eastern Time, Tuesday October 19, 1999.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Statement on need for unique DNS root to ICANN.
* Brian Carpenter: Ask Noel Chiappa to draft a statement on the need for aggregation.
* Jon Crowcroft: Draft statement on wiretapping work in megaco (for discussion on IAB list).
* John Klensin: Send note to IESG suggesting that no new infrastructure domains be put in .int, and that current infrastructure domains in .int should be examined.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Geoff Huston: “QOS architecture is broken” draft to IAB list.
	+ Ongoing.
* Fred Baker: QOS architecture overview document to IAB list.
	+ Ongoing.
* Harald Alvestrand: Taxonomy document re. information accessing functions (directories, etc.)
	+ Ongoing.
* John Klensin: Prepare suggestion on Internet Draft boilerplate wording for Poisson Working Group. = On hold until Simpson appeal resolved. IESG is also looking into this. John forward to IAB and IESG.
* Steve Bellovin: Post on IETF Web site a list of common security attacks.
	+ Ongoing.
* John Klensin and Rob Austein: Organize mini-workshop on DNS scaling concerns.
	+ Ongoing.
* Fred Baker: Plan IAB workshop on wireless/mobility.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Organize a BOF on anycast addressing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Make sure routing ADs are aware of multi-stranding routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Suggest to Routing Area ADs that they consider work on QOS-, TOS- and constraint-based routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Ask Routing Research Group to study what is breaking routing in the default-free zone and analyze multicast routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Figure out what was actually meant by the routing workshop item on SNMPv3 authentication, rate limiting, etc.; send to O&M ADs.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Get detailed routing workshop notes published on IAB web site.
	+ Ongoing.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter: Transparency
	+ A few extra comments; will do one more round and get it be published as an Informational RFC.
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Ongoing.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Received comments. Final draft by DC draft cutoff.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ Draft out, with few comments. Brian will publish as a draft.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Routing Workshop report as RFC.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions


#### 2. review drafts in progress


#### 3. administrivia


 At DC IETF, meet opposite the social on Tuesday.  

October IAB call: move to October 19.

#### 4. IRTF news


 Transferring Web page to University of Twente, who will host and maintain.  

IRSG list established, for procedural issue resolution.
 New proposed groups will be reviewed shortly. 


 Goal is to have at least one IRTF presentation at each IETF plenary.
 


#### 5. IESG liaison report


#### 6. ICANN matters (Board seats, DNS root, ASO issues)

Need to provide three nominees from the IETF community for the Board seats. On a tight time frame: Brian Carpenter will send out call today, requesting responses by end of next week.


 Consensus that we still need a statement on the requirement for a unique DNS root. Needs to be completed, and send to ICANN list. 


 Ad Hoc committee on addressing issues being put together. Some people don’t appear to understand the need for top-level aggregation. (It was observed that number portability is just possible in current circuit switched network, but not reasonable for packet switched networks. Don’t want to have someone require portability independent of technical issues.) Consensus: Need a statement on why aggregation is necessary, sent to Ad Hoc committee. Ask Noel Chiappa to draft. 


#### 7. Simpson appeal status

Draft finding sent to attorney for review; the lawyer has been out for medical reasons, but should get to it soon. Bill has been informed of the reason for the delay.


#### 8. Wiretapping facilities in megaco

megaco working group wants to accommodate wiretapping functionality in their work; specifically, by designing a protocol to facilitate wiretapping. This is driven by US law requiring local phone companies to provide such a function to the government.


 Objections voiced against this work belonging in the IETF: A “wiretapping” protocol is not in the megaco charter, adding such a protocol adds significant protocol complexity, not to mention many people’s strong moral objections.
 


 The IAB sees both serious end-to-end architectural issues here, as well as the ethical arguments. Jon Crowcroft will draft a statement for discussion.
 


#### 9. .INT

.int TLD contains some infrastructure/technical domains (e.g., IPv6 reverse tree), along with some real domains (e.g., NATO, INTERPOL, commonwealth). Currently, many requests outstanding by treaty organizations for domains in .int. What should be done with .int? Give to ITU, ICANN, or what? Could move some infrastructure/technical domains to, e.g., “infrastructure.ietf.org”, or to “.iana.org”.


 Consensus: New infrastructure/technical domains should be put somewhere other than .int. Work with IANA and IESG to make this happen. 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by by Abel Weinrib . An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


