
MINUTES FOR JANUARY 12, 1999 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

 Tony Hain  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Joyce Reynolds  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday February 9, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Ask IETF Secretariat to put monthly reports on IETF Web site (as IMR is phased out).


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Send message to Herb Schorr that the IAB is extending the delegation of the IANA functions to ISI for another three months.
	+ Done.
* Brian Carpenter: Send request to IANA that it do first allocation of IPv6 addresses to regional registries.
	+ Done. IANA has forwarded to ICANN.
* Charlie Perkins: Propose plan for IAB workshop on wireless networking.
	+ Open. Targeting to hold in second half (before Oslo?).
* Keith Moore: Propose plan for IAB scenario planning workshop.
	+ Open.
* Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem. [Get clear applicability statement published.]
	+ Open. General agreement that it matters, but having trouble getting traction. Keith will contact Patrik Faltstrom.
* Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	+ ?[Ned update].
* Steve Deering: Figure out actions based on routing workshop report. Send to IAB list for discussion.
	+ Open. (reworded)


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Will incorporate various comments; send out new version in next couple of weeks.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing.
* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft by February teleconference.
* Keith Moore and Charlie Perkins: “Finding stuff” issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Remove; failed to get traction on this.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing. A few comments on ID to incorporate.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman: Routing workshop report.
	+ Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ On hold.
* Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions


#### 2. review drafts in progress


#### 3. administrivia

IAB Web site being refreshed.


 Internet Monthly Report–is it worth the effort ISI puts into it? Substantial part is repetitive with Coya’s IETF Secretariat report in ISOC newsletter. Suggest that the Secretariat report be put up on IETF Web site instead.
 


 Consensus is face-to-face at next IETF will, as usual, be opposite the social (expect Tuesday evening). 


 Discussed value of technical presentations at IETF plenary. Agreed in general that they can be valuable, but we need to work to ensure their high quality. 


#### 4. IRTF news

IRTF server has been having hardware problems. Being fixed.


#### 5. IESG liaison report

Lengthy discussion of problems with authorship of standards documents.


#### 6. ICANN/IANA/PSO status

Singapore ICANN meeting is 3/3. Who from IAB will attend? Perhaps Steve Deering.


 Lots of standards bodies want to “join the party.” Many of their suggestions appear reasonable. If we (IETF) were not to play in ICANN, then danger is that the IETF will not be turned to for technical advice. However, not clear how to provide seat at table for all of them. 


 Fundamental question is whether ICANN simply administering addresses and names, or is it Internet governance? Even though the former is what is actually in scope at present time, everyone is acting as though it is the latter. 


#### 7. technical work items for the IAB

(please think about what we should do next…)
 Scalability, balkanization, etc… 


 Will the Internet end up looking like the phone network of the 1970s?
 


 Discussion of potential value of holding a facilitated scenario planning workshop on future of Internet? 



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


