
MINUTES FOR JULY 11, 1999 IAB BIZ MEETING IN OSLO
-------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Rob Austein  

 Harald Alvestrand  

 Fred Baker (IETF Chair)  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Geoff Huston  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore (IESG liaison)  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday August 10, 1999


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Geoff Huston: “QOS architecture is broken” draft to IAB list.
* Fred Baker: QOS architecture overview document to IAB list.
* Harald Alvestrand: Taxonomy document re. information accessing functions (directories, etc.)
* John Klensin: Prepare suggestion on Internet Draft boilerplate wording for Poisson Working Group.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Steve Bellovin: Post on IETF Web site a list of common security attacks.
* John Klensin and Rob Austein: Organize mini-workshop in Oslo on DNS scaling concerns.
* Fred Baker: Plan IAB workshop on wireless/mobility.
* Steve Deering: Organize a BOF on anycast addressing.
* Steve Deering: Make sure routing ADs are aware of multi-stranding routing.
* Steve Deering: Suggest to Routing Area ADs that they consider work on QOS-, TOS- and constraint-based routing.
* Steve Deering: Ask Routing Research Group to study what is breaking routing in the default-free zone and analyze multicast routing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Figure out what was actually meant by the routing workshop item on SNMPv3 authentication, rate limiting, etc.; send to O&M ADs.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Get detailed routing workshop notes published on IAB web site.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Brian Carpenter: Transparency
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.


### NOTES:


#### Review Utrecht workshop


(brief, as there is an IETF BOF for this)

 Local hosting was excellent; sincere thanks to Erik Huizer et al. 


 List of recommendations (preliminary, see workshop report for complete set):

- Consider adopting a new end-point namespace, especially for IPSEC. 
- Continue effort to deploy IPv6, as a migration path from NAT/RSIP.

- Make automatic IPv6 renumbering work.

- Deploy DNS Security as soon as possible, but otherwise refrain from modifying DNS beyond current plans.

- Consider new API at a higher level of abstraction than TCP/IP sockets (e.g. open by name rather than by address).

#### Review IAB work items

Major work items to focus on going forward:

- mobility and wireless
- agreement that need to increase general level of security awareness in IETF, but does not presently require IAB action
- overall QOS architecture
- “directories”: DNS, LDAP, etc.–architect directory with necessary functions (publish/subscribe, etc.)

#### Prepare for Simpson appeal hearing

Geoff Huston was recently appointed chair of the ISOC Board of Trustees, which is next stop in I\* appeal process. Thus, Geoff has recused himself from IAB consideration of this matter.


 IAB will meet directly after the appeal hearing for first-round discussion. Official IAB response will be published as soon as reasonably possible thereafter. 


#### Boilerplate in Internet Drafts

We need to be much clearer about what is contributed into standards process, with rights and responsibilities associated with that, vs. personal contributions that are not going to be considered by working groups. Need to also be clear about IP rights associated with putting things into the standards track. Should be taken to Poisson Working Group.


#### Prepare for open meeting


 RFC Editor report.  

Open mike.

#### Plan BOF coverage for the week


#### PSO and IANA MoUs

Goal is that PSO MoU will be signed this week (possibly at end of plenary).



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


