
MINUTES FOR FEBRUARY 9, 1999 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath  

 Tim Howes  

 Erik Huizer  

 Cindy Jung  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore  

 Bob Moskowitz  

 Charlie Perkins  

 Joyce Reynolds  

Abel Weinrib

### NEXT MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday March 9, 10-12 Eastern Time.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* Joyce Reynolds: Write draft paragraph stating clear policy on post-publication updates to RFCs.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Ask IETF Secretariat to put monthly reports on IETF Web site (as IMR is phased out).
	+ Done.
* Charlie Perkins: Propose plan for IAB workshop on wireless networking.
	+ Open. Targeting to hold in second half (before Oslo?). Next step: statement of workshop objectives. (Focus on wireless telephony??)
* Erik Huizer: Propose plan for IAB “Scenario Planning” workshop.
	+ Proposing 2.5 day workshop in Amsterdam, with one day scenario planning. Would need to pay for facilitating the meeting (GBN, $10k). (Two years ago, was possibly pro-bono if we held it at their headquarters in Berkeley.) Erik will get more detail on the total process from GBN; Keith will follow-up on pro-bono option.
* Keith Moore: Dynamic DNS scaling concerns. Figure out if there is a problem. [Get clear applicability statement published.]
	+ Open. Keith contacted Patrik Faltstrom.
* Bob Moskowitz, Steve Bellovin, Ned Freed: Security mandatory to implement.
	+ Open.
* Steve Deering: Figure out actions based on routing workshop report.
	+ Open. Sent to IAB list for discussion.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Ongoing. Will incorporate various comments; send out new version by ID deadline (Feb. 26).
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Internet Draft about to appear.
* Charlie Perkins and Bob Moskowitz: Tunnelling issues, architectures, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft soon.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Ongoing. A few comments on ID to incorporate. Next version out by ID deadline.
* Charlie Perkins, Radia Perlman: Routing workshop report.
	+ Ongoing. Draft of overview out shortly. Draft of detailed report out by ID deadline.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ On hold.
* Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions


#### 2. review drafts in progress


#### 3. administrivia


 March 9 teleconference–will hold.  

Tuesday evening March 16 IAB dinner.

#### 4. IRTF news

The current IRTF Chair is having trouble being responsive due to demands of his day job. Might be time to look for a new IRTF chair.


#### 5. IESG liaison report


#### 6. ICANN/IANA/PSO status

Mail threads have gone quiet. Final stages of negotiations between US government and ICANN are underway.


#### 7. RFC typos – is it OK for the RFC Editor to fix them?

Need a clear public policy on changes to RFCs once they are published on line. Allow typo fixes for a limited time (e.g., two weeks) after they are officially published? If so, need to make sure updates are propagated to all mirror sites.


#### 8. IPv6 address space allocation

Need clarity on who has the authority to allocate addresses. Answer we want is that it belongs to IANA.


#### 9. Discussion, NomComm IESG slate



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib, weinrib@intel.com. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


