
MINUTES FOR OCTOBER 19, 1999 IAB TELECONFERENCE
-----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Harald Alvestrand  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Ned Freed  

 Tony Hain  

 Erik Huizer (IRTF Chair)  

 Geoff Huston  

 John Klensin  

 Keith Moore (IESG liaison)  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)


### NEXT MEETING:



Face-face at DC IETF, opposite the social, 6:30 Tuesday, November 9, with buffet dinner.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS:




### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Statement on need for unique DNS root to ICANN.
	+ Done.
* Brian Carpenter: Ask Noel Chiappa to draft a statement on the need for aggregation.
	+ Asked. Ran will followup.
* Jon Crowcroft: Draft statement on wiretapping work in megaco (for discussion on IAB list).
	+ Overtaken by events. (Raven list, etc.)
* John Klensin: Send note to IESG suggesting that no new infrastructure domains be put in .int, and that current infrastructure domains in .int should be examined.
	+ Done.
* Geoff Huston: “QOS architecture is broken” draft to IAB list.
	+ Ongoing. Ready for discussion at biz meeting.
* Fred Baker: QOS architecture overview document to IAB list.
	+ Ongoing.
* Harald Alvestrand: Taxonomy document re. information accessing functions (directories, etc.)
	+ Draft sent to list. Moves to “DRAFTS IN PROGRESS”
* John Klensin: Prepare suggestion on Internet Draft boilerplate wording for Poisson Working Group.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Post on IETF Web site a list of common security attacks.
	+ Ongoing. Draft produced; on track as an IAB publication.
* John Klensin and Rob Austein: Organize mini-workshop on DNS scaling concerns.
	+ Ongoing.
* Fred Baker: Plan IAB workshop on wireless/mobility.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Organize a BOF on anycast addressing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Make sure routing ADs are aware of multi-stranding routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Suggest to Routing Area ADs that they consider work on QOS-, TOS- and constraint-based routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering: Ask Routing Research Group to study what is breaking routing in the default-free zone and analyze multicast routing.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Figure out what was actually meant by the routing workshop item on SNMPv3 authentication, rate limiting, etc.; send to O&M ADs.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Get detailed routing workshop notes published on IAB web site.
	+ Ongoing.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Harald Alvestrand: Directory definitions.
	+ Draft by DC draft cutoff.
* Brian Carpenter: Transparency
	+ Under review by IESG; on track for publication as Informational RFC.
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	+ Ongoing.
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	+ Ongoing. Draft out, but few comments received to date.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	+ Received comments. Final draft by DC draft cutoff.
* Brian Carpenter and Erik Huizer: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	+ Ongoing. Received no substantive comments on draft to date.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	+ Ongoing. New draft out (v 0.5).
* Steve Deering: Routing Workshop report as RFC.
	+ Ongoing.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

see above


#### 2. review drafts in progress

see above


#### 3. administrivia

Biz meeting at DC IETF, opposite the social, 6:30 Tuesday, November 9, with buffet dinner.


#### 4. IRTF news


 New, updated Web site will be on-line very shortly.  

Notable research group status:

 Information Infrastructure Architecture–dormant; will shut down.  

 Routing Research Group–looking for chair.  

 Name space–new.  

 Interplanetary Internet–proposed.  

 Diff-serv end-end deployment–proposed; questions of scope re. IETF work.
#### 5. IESG liaison report


 Lots of heat re. Raven list.  

IESG will meet with representatives of ITU on Sunday before DC IETF.

 The ITU appears to have recognized that Internet protocols matter…
#### 6. PSO ICANN nominees – formal announcement

Brian will send mail to Steve Coya, for announcement on IETF announce list of IETF nominees.


#### 7. ICANN ASO ad hoc committee

May need to nominate someone to serve, and may want to comment when/if formation of committee becomes public.


#### 8. Directory definitions document

Draft sent to IAB list. Consensus that this should be pursued. Harald will publish as Internet Draft by cutoff.


#### 9. IPv6 privacy issue

Architectural issues exist around basing addressing on the assumption that Ethernet address will be unique and stable. However, that said…


 Discussion around how much IAB should get involved in PR: make our own statement, endorse IPv6 working group chair statement, encourage IPv6 Forum to get out press release that points to IAB statement, etc. 


 Decision: Get IPv6 statement modified; post on IETF Web site as IAB statement; encourage IPv6 Forum to use appropriately. 


#### 10. DC biz meeting topics

Serious pruning of action list.


 Wireless workshop, etc.
Substantive discussion on QOS architecture.  

ICANN.



### Future Meetings



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.




---


These minutes were prepared by by Abel Weinrib . An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


