
MINUTES FOR April 10, 2000 IAB TELECONFERENCE
---------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Harald Alvestrand  

 Randy Bush (IESG liaison)  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Don Heath (ISOC liaison)  

 Erik Huizer (IRTF Chair)  

 Geoff Huston  

 John Klensin  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

 Henning Schulzrinne  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)


### NEXT MEETING:


[Teleconference Monday May 8, 10-12 US Eastern Time.](IABmins.2000-05-08.html)

### NEW ACTION ITEMS:


* John Klensin: Send Tony Hain note re. changing authorship of NAT/VPN document.
* John Klensin: Contact Steve Deering to inform him of May 1 time-out for “case for IPv6” document.


### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Henning Schulzrinne: Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	+ Ongoing. (mid May)
* Joyce Reynolds: Request for an RFC number for the raven draft.
	+ Done.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter: Review and potentially update RFC 1958
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Revive the NSRG or wind up.
	+ Ongoing.
* Randy Bush: Circulate IESG report on document backlog (“status of items”) to IAB
	+ Ongoing.
* John Klensin: Prepare suggestion on Internet Draft boilerplate wording for Poisson Working Group.
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: Get detailed routing workshop notes published on IAB web site.
	+ Ongoing. Needs to be done, or just give up on getting it done. Keep for one more month.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Geoff Huston: QOS
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-qos-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Erik Huizer: Network Layer Workshop report.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-ntwlyrws-over-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In RFC editor queue.
* Rob Austein: Need for single DNS root.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unique-dns-root-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In RFC editor queue.
* Ran Atkinson: Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Waiting on document editors.
* Harald Alvestrand: Directory definitions.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-implications-04.txt>
	+ Ongoing. On hold, pending legal wrangling. Might be best to change authorship to “IAB.”
* Ned Freed: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-firewall-req-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-secmech-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Brian Carpenter and John Klensin: IAB charter (updated RFC 1601).
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-rfc1601bis-01.txt>
	+ Done.
* Steve Deering for Charlie Perkins: The case for IPv6.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-case-for-ipv6-05.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Concerns raised whether this is technical enough to be published as an IAB document. Some don’t think this should be an IAB-authored document, but it is one that IAB would like to see happen. If all references to IAB were removed, then IAB does not need to worry about it.
* Steve Deering: Routing Workshop report as Informational RFC.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rtrws-over-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In queue, waiting for IESG timeout.
* IAB: RAVEN
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-raven-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Published as Information RFC. Make BCP?


### NOTES:


#### 1. Minutes of previous meeting


#### 2. Review of action items

see above


#### 3. Administrivia

ICANN Nomcom: IAB will do it if asked to do it. Liaisons: IAB wireless workshop suggested that we need better liaison with groups working on wireless IP.


#### 4. IRTF report and news

ICS-cast has been proposed as IETF working group. Does this belong in IRTF? General sense of discussion is that this work is actually engineering and appropriate for IETF.


#### 5. IESG liaison report and news


#### 6. Workshop report status


#### 7. Internet draft processing report (from Adelaide meeting discussion)

Turnaround under 24 hours for IDs submitted properly. Working Group documents that required WG Chair authorization (i.e., .00 versions) may take longer if Chairs don’t respond in a timely fashion.


#### 8. IAB Mailing list and spam


 Waiting for information on ISI mail system.  

One possibility is automatic filtering and routing of dubious stuff to human moderator.

#### 9. Appeals, pending appeals, and boilerplate


#### 10. Multiple root paper.

Should we request BCP processing? It is in queue as an Informational RFC. Consensus that not worth making a BCP at this time.


 ICANN Root Server committee interactions. Concern that it is moving rather far into architectural issues, with no “IETF as IETF” representation. John Klensin will suggest to Jun that he work to schedule ICANN Root Server committee the meetings so as not to conflict with other IETF meetings.
 


#### 11. IDNS

Quick statement on stability and integration. Get comments from IAB list and put out as an IAB-authored draft this week (with Leslie as document editor).


#### 12. Egress filtering statement?

Do we need “yet another filtering statement” to supplement what already exists. Will ask for more detailed statement from Mo (?last name?).


#### 13. Coordination and Normalization

Normalization for UCS4 being defined by NFS Working Group. Need a standard that can be used across IETF working groups.


#### 14. Work items.

Need to identify no more than 4 main themes on which to focus over the next year.





---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib . An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab. 




---


