
MINUTES FOR AUGUST 14, 2000 IAB TELECONFERENCE
----------------------------------------------


### PRESENT:



 Rob Austein  

 Harald Alvestrand  

 Steve Bellovin  

 Randy Bush (IESG liaison)  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Steve Deering  

 Tony Hain  

 Don Heath (ISOC liaison)  

 Erik Huizer (IRTF Chair)  

 Geoff Huston  

 John Klensin (IAB Chair)  

 Joyce Reynolds (RFC Editor liaison)  

Abel Weinrib (IAB Executive Director)


### NEXT MEETING:


[Teleconference 10AM (US Eastern time) Monday, September 11.](IABmins.2000-09-11.html)

### NEW ACTION ITEMS:




### OLD ACTION ITEMS:


* Brian Carpenter: Arrange “middle boxes” IAB workshop.
	+ Ongoing
* Harald Alvestrand: Arrange “International Internet” IAB workshop. Fred Baker, Randy Bush, John Klensin… site committee.
	+ Ongoing
* Tony Hain: Contact Charlie Perkins re. future of “case for IPv6” document; decide how to make progress.
	+ Done. Closed with Charlie; will become an IAB document.
* Henning Schulzrinne: Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	+ Ongoing.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter: Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	+ Ongoing. Likely to be heavily influenced by “middle boxes” workshop.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS:


* Geoff Huston: QOS
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-qos-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In RFC Editor queue.
* Erik Huizer: Network Layer Workshop report.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-ntwlyrws-over-03.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In RFC Editor queue.
* Ran Atkinson: Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing. References need to be cleaned up, then send to IESG for publication as BCP.
* Harald Alvestrand: Directory definitions.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Tony Hain: NAT/VPN
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-implications-07.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Sent to IESG for publication as Informational RFC.
* Leslie Daigle: Security, firewalls, proxies, etc.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-firewall-req-02.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Sent to IESG for publication as Informational RFC.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-secmech-01.txt>
	+ Ongoing.
* Tony Hain: The case for IPv6.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-case-for-ipv6-06.txt>
	+ Ongoing. New draft shortly.
* Steve Deering: Routing Workshop report as Informational RFC.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rtrws-over-03.txt>
	+ Ongoing. In RFC Editor queue.
* Brian Carpenter: Wireless workshop report.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-wirelessws-00.txt>
	+ Ongoing. Last call sent to workshop list.


### NOTES:


#### 1. review actions

see above


#### 2. review drafts in progress

see above


#### 3. “International Internet” workshop

Serious conflict: ISO JTC1 SC2 WG2 (multi-octet character sets) is meeting the dates we had chosen.


 Invitee list is getting long with addition of language experts. Also need people who have been deploying and running Internet systems, not just protocol designers and language experts. What about people who understand the “politics” of the language problem? 


 Focus a concern. Missing clear definition of scope, what success would be for this two-day workshop, etc. 


 Three general areas:


 how to retrofit the existing base  

 realities of potential solutions  

 advice for new protocols
 Need to distinguish “internationalization” (single Internet-wide solution for multi-lingual, multi-representational problem) from “localization” (locale-specific handling of data). 


 RFC 1958 states that protocol elements and publicly visible names “should be in ASCII”–how should this statement be modified? 


#### 4. IPv6 address allocation

Response to RIRs re. allocation of IPv6 addresses. In Adelaide, suggestion was that would be better to allocate longer prefixes–resulted in draft statement sent to list by Brian Carpenter.


 Bottom line: appears to be general consensus on goal; issue is how to state it in a non-controversial manner. Further discussion will occur on IAB list. 


#### 5. ICANN, PSO, IANA, etc.

Update on the situation were discussed, without resolution.



### Future Meetings


Regular teleconference second Monday of the month at 10:00 AM Eastern Time.






---


These minutes were prepared by Abel Weinrib . An online copy of these and other minutes are available at http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins. Also, visit the IAB Web page at http://www.iab.org/iab.




---


