
IAB Business Meeting — March 20, 2001 6pm-10pm in Minneapolis (IETF 50)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


### ATTENDING



 John Klensin — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand  

 Rob Austein  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Fred Baker — IETF/IESG Chair, IAB member elect  

 Steve Bellovin — Liaison to the IESG  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Steve Deering  

 Sally Floyd — IAB member elect  

 Tony Hain  

 Erik Huizer — IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF  

 Geoff Huston  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Henning Schulzrinne  

Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC
 **REGRETS**


Randy Bush — Liaison from the IESG

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 N.B.: The March 13, 2001 planned teleconference was cancelled.  

[Teleconference Tuesday April 10 (2001), 1500-1700 US East Coast time.](IABmins.2001-04-10.html)

### AGENDA



IAB Business Meeting, Tuesday March 20, 2001 in Minneapolis 6:00PM to 10:00PM
 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings


 . [February 13, 2001](IABmins.2001-02-13.html) as circulated March 13, 2001.
 2. Review of Action Items (below)  

 3. Review of current IAB documents (below)  

 4. Internal


 . Elect IAB chair  

 . ISOC Liaison  

 . Plan Wed open plenary
 5. Workshop status  

 6. Liaison updates  

 7. IRTF issues in more depth  

 8. Dave Crocker proposed revision of RFC2826 (unique dns root)  

 9. Current state and review of external liaisons


 ITU/ENUM  

 ICANN/IDN  

 ICANN/.ARPA  

 MINC

### NOTES


#### 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings


 . [February 13, 2001](IABmins.2001-02-13.html) as circulated March 13, 2001.
Accepted.


#### 2. Review of Action Items

See “Old Action Items” below.


#### 3. Review of current IAB documents

See “IAB Drafts in Progress” below.


#### 4. Internal

**Elect IAB chair**  

John has some reservations, given he feels he should be contributing more time to IDN, but is willing to stand again. John is re-elected unanimously.
 **ISOC Liaison**  

 Lynn St.Amour will continue as ISOC Liaison for now. There is a future discussion to be had about whether this is the best arrangement; should it be an ISOC liaison to IAB, or IAB liaison to ISOC? Will evaluate best plan. 


 **Plan Wed open plenary**  

 Geoff’s BGP will be handled in the IRTF section of the plenary. So, for our section: . Intro & new members . John will mention workshop update . RFC editor report (usual detail, plus new add’l detail) . IRTF report . Christian to remind people about ISOC elections . Brian wireless workshop update 


#### 5. Workshop status

See action items for update.


 Next teleconference — we’ll poll for peoples’ input re. potential workshop topics. 


#### 6. Liaison updates

**IESG**  

Nothing new.
 **IRTF**  

 Digital Rights Management (DRM) research group has been chartered. Will remove Information Infrastructure research group; the chairs have stopped responding. NSRG is somewhat stuck as a whole; there are fractions working on issues related to charter but not directly in line with it. Erik would like a 1-2 page status of the RG and then rechartering to get the group focused on the problems it has discovered are what needs working on. 


 Discussion of concerns that IRTF is being used (by IETF) as a dumping grounds for work that the IETF doesn’t want, and that results of RGs are not taken seriously. There is strong support for the role of the research task force (to do research, to be labelled as research), and pushback on the notion that IRTF is not taken seriously. There is agreement that we should be well-behaved about not just dumping stuff out of the IETF into the IRTF. Discussion of improved IRTF visibility within the IETF community — applauding existing efforts such as IETF plenary reports, but given that there’s one IRTF RG reporting each plenary (3 per year), that takes a while to cycle through all the groups. 


 **PSO-PC**  

 General Assembly — July 11, 2001. Details on PSO-PC web page. Remind Bernard Aboba that PSO-PC appointees need to be revisited by the NomCom.
 


 **W3C**  

 Not a lot to report. FURI BoF was an exposition of joint effort in URIs. Brian is still concerned with XP (SOAP transformation); that people haven’t looked sufficiently at BXXP. Fred will be on April 2 call. Brian can be available if needed if John can’t make the call. 


 **Other News from Afield**  

 ISOC elections underway. Voting results will be announced on April 30. The Board meeting to elect new offices and chair is on June 5. 


#### 7. IRTF issues in more depth

Covered in IRTF liaison update.


#### 8. Dave Crocker proposed revision of RFC2826 (unique dns root)

Consensus is that now is not the best time to re-open the RFC2826 document (might be misinterpreted as picking on particular products and services).


#### 9. Current state and review of external liaisons

**General issue of external liaisons…**  

 John is working with Lynn to streamline and bolster the press release process, so that we can get statements out when we need to.
 **ITU/ENUM**  

 Ongoing discussion about how to manage the ENUM operational component (e164.arpa). It’s our turn to reply (to Houlin Zhao). 


 This also makes the .arpa policy document critical. 


 **ICANN/IDN**  

 GAC committee, Board, Names Council Committee, and a Names Council working group are EACH wanting to look at the internationalized domain names problem. They’ve asked for our input. John has replied that we’re willing to give input to ONE group, not all of them individually. 


 Stuart Lynn is new ICANN CEO, and he will be introduced at breakfast tomorrow. 


 **MINC**  

 YJ Park has scheduled a meeting this week, in Minneapolis, re. keywords. Concerns have been expressed that this has not followed standard IETF BOF procedure. It is not a BOF. 


 **POISSON**  

 Need another IAB member willing to co-chair (John, currently co-chairing with Jim Galvin, is getting too overloaded to do it effectively). 


 **IPv6 Forum**  

 John has been asked to give a presentation at the Ottawa meeting. Will do it as a balanced presentation — not a sales pitch, nor undermining it. 



### OLD ACTION ITEMS


* Steve Deering: Explore the architectural implications of IESG thinking behind “volume” area (joint with key IESG members). Share insights with rest of IAB.
	+ Done
	+ Discussed in Saturday’s non-retreat.
* Brian Carpenter: Arrange “middle boxes” IAB workshop.
	+ Done
	+ BoF held on Monday at the IETF (“midtax”); Brian’s personal feeling is that there is no justification for a workshop. Group agrees that the workshop will be shelved, and outcome will be revisions of the middlebox taxonomy draft.
* Harald Alvestrand: Arrange “International Internet” workshop/series of meetings
	+ Ongoing
	+ Next in on-going series is scheduled for April 20/21, 2001 in Montreal.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter: Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	+ Ongoing
	+ Rob & Brian are going to review this action item in the light of the outcome from the MIDTAX bof.
* Leslie Daigle: poke W3C PSO-PC members to fulfill our commitment for the ICANN oversight appointment committee.
	+ Ongoing
	+ Steve Bellovin spoke to Danny Weitzner (W3C PSO-PC appointee) last week. Danny asserted that he would try hard to ping people and get an answer on that for the oversight committee.
* Geoff Huston: draft up text for .arpa usage policy.
	+ Ongoing
	+ No progress yet.
* Leslie Daigle: follow-up Geoff’s .arpa text from WG usage perspective (if different).
	+ Ongoing
	+ No progress; waiting on Geoff.
* Steve Deering: put together a strawman of his view about what the scope of the Internet architecture is/should be in considering IETF work.
	+ Ongoing
	+ No visible progress yet.
* Leslie Daigle: note to W3C coordination list, particularly to stimulate discussion/coordination of XML-related work.
	+ Done
	+ Next teleconference scheduled for April 2, 2001.
* Leslie Daigle: will extract out list of drafts to present at Minneapolis plenary, other time-sensitive prep issues for Wed plenary.
	+ Done
	+ Few RFCs at a suitable stage to present, but see IAB plenary planning point for details on what is going to be presented.
* Tony Hain: Send approved appeal reply to Dan Bernstein.
	+ Done
* Steve Bellovin: help Steve Deering in prep’ing summary of architectural implications of sub-ip for Minneapolis retreat discussion.
	+ Done
* Brian Carpenter: circulate his draft of IETF process issues and considerations to IESG for comment/input. Goal is to have input to the IETF process (I-D? Poisson?) for London IETF meeting.
	+ Ongoing
	+ Circulated, but little comment back.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS


* John Klensin, Harald Alvestrand: draft reply to Houlin Zhao.
* All: consider possible workshop topics for consideration for a workshop this year.
 [From Saturday’s technical discussions:]
* Geoff Huston, Steve Deering, and Henning Schulzrinne: Put together a problem statement/charter for the IP provisioning problem, with timeframe for conclusion. Will later determine whether it’s IRTF or IETF material.
* ?? Spell out research objectives for inter-domain routing improvements.
* Geoff Huston, ?? Subcommittee to report back to IAB next IETF (London) about progress of the problem understanding & proposals within the IETF.
* Henning Shulzrinne, Jon Crowcroft See about organizing an ACM/IEEE focussed workshop on the subject — getting this out into the research community
* ?? Bring the inter-domain routing issue to the IRTF Routing Group, e.g., to get the terminology sorted out.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS


* Steve Bellovin: Security considerations, including common security attacks. http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-01.txt
	+ Ongoing
	+ Just got something back from Eric Rescorla; Steve hasn’t had timE to look through it.
* Harald Alvestrand: Directory definitions. http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-01.txt
	+ Ongoing
	+ Has had a few comments. Doesn’t expect major revisions. Will publish a revised version post-IETF.
* Steve Bellovin: Applicability statement for security building blocks. http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-secmech-01.txt
	+ Ongoing
	+ Still on-going, Real Soon Now
* Geoff Huston: Architectural Requirements for Inter-Domain Routing in the Internet http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-bgparch-00.txt
	+ Ongoing
	+ Another revision due out in a couple of weeks, per Saturday’s discussion.
* Brian Carpenter: Middle boxes: taxonomy and issues http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-carpenter-midtax-00.txt
	+ Ongoing
	+ Will be a -01 draft based on bof outcome.
* Henning Schulzrinne: Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	+ Ongoing
	+ Has gone to relevant colleagues for comments. Hasn’t yet gone out as an I-D


### FUTURE MEETINGS



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Leslie Daigle; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](index.html). 


 Also, visit the IAB Web page at [http://www.iab.org](../index.html).
 




---


