
IAB Meeting — October 9, 2001, 15h00-17h00 US-ET
------------------------------------------------


### ATTENDING



 John Klensin — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Steve Bellovin — Liaison to the IESG  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Sally Floyd  

 Geoff Huston  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

 Vern Paxson — Incoming IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Henning Schulzrinne  

Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC
 **REGRETS:**


 Fred Baker  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Steve Deering  

Erik Huizer — IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday November 13 (2001), 1500-1700 US East Coast time.


### AGENDA


1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings
	+ September 24, 2001 (as circulated October 7, 2001)
2. Review of Action Items (below)
3. Review of current IAB documents (below)
4. Liaison updates
5. NomCom liaison selection
6. ICANN meeting advice
7. BGP storms — position to express?
8. OPES/CDI, and shepherding role
9. Heads-up on IETF document subpeona
10. POISSON–
11. Adobe/TIFF IPR issue


### NOTES


#### 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings

- September 24, 2001 (as circulated October 7, 2001)

 Yes. 


#### 2. Review of Action Items

See below.


#### 3. Review of current IAB documents

See below.


#### 4. Liaison updates

**IESG:**  

The IETF Secretariat was served a subpeona last week for some material related to an apparent IPR issue between 2 companies working within the IETF. The IETF (IESG/IAB) is not directly involved.
**IRTF:**  

 Vern Paxson reports that he hasn’t heard back from OPES folks about his request for clarification on their ideas of an OPES research group. 


 He has received a request for an RG on “stochastic forwarding” for routing — not yet clear if there is a taskable problem in the IRTF here, and if so if it should become part of existing Routing RG, or another group.
 


**ISOC:**  

 Nothing to report. 


**W3C:**  

 Nothing to report. 


**ITU:**  

 The IAB discussed its ongoing concerns about ITU actions and inactions unilaterally delaying the testing and deployment of the ENUM work. 


**PSO:**  

 The IAB reviewed the “unified” PSO statement on multiple roots. Several concerns raised about the expressions of other Standards Development Organizations (SDOs), but the overall statement text is acceptable. 


 On the PSO review of the proposal from the At Large Study Committee, it is agreed that the better plan is for individual SDOs to express whatever comments they see as appropriate, individually. 


**Other:**  

 ISO SC22 WG20 — they have downgraded the proposal to a Category C liaison. They are ballotting it; when that process ends, they will formally invite us. For the IETF’s standard liaison activities, only “Category A” status is appropriate. 


#### 5. NomCom liaison selection

Fred Baker has agreed to act as IAB liaison to the NomCom this year.


#### 6. ICANN meeting advice

ICANN has shifted the focus of its next meeting (in California, November) to discuss security and the Internet. Discussion of potential agenda yields: the most important thing ICANN can do is figure out which piece of any particular problem are within ICANN’s purview. Administrative: ICANN looks after it. Operations: NANOG, RIPE, et al. Protocols: IETF/PSO.


 DNSSEC should probably be on the agenda. Perhaps a panel, with relevant technical people presenting the status of things, identifying any unresolved issues.
 


#### 7. BGP storms — position to express?

There have been concerns expressed in the media about seeming “BGP storms”. Harald Alvestrands relates — “this is more properly described as a BGP breeze”. It’s probably more people panicking than anything else. No firm measurements. No strong answers, just strong doubts, that’s not the basis of a publishable statement.


#### 8. OPES/CDI, and shepherding role

OPES — Sally Floyd has forwarded a draft document summing up the concerns that have been expressed about architectural implications of the proposed OPES work, and identifying the issues that need to be addressed by any chartered work.


 There was general support for the document, although not many people on the call had read it through. Erik Nordmark suggests floating it by Patrik Faltstrom, as AD of the Apps area, to make sure it answers his questions. Leslie Daigle will do an informal IAB last call to make sure people have looked at the document. CDI — Sally points out that it hasn’t had the community pushback that OPES had; it’s primarily the IAB that has issues with it. Henning Schulzrinne suggests: maybe at least we should separate out the CDI issues of replication and distribution of data from the issues of locating relevant copies. Sally suggests: make it clear what is the short term expedient thing, and what is longterm correct approach; making sure that the short term doesn’t block the longterm. Leslie will draft up some basic “IAB considerations” for CDI. On the general theory of getting involved in pre-WG stuff: OPES and CDI have had hiccups in process, but Steve Bellovin points out that this is what we’re chartered to do. This is just a more explicit participation in the process. John adds that we should make this clear to the NomCom: people need to be willing to commit real time, and self-start. Sally comments that the OPES stuff has been more than 1-day/week, but previous was less, so it averages out. So, we agree that IAB work is a day a week average, but bursty. 


#### 9. Heads-up on IETF document subpeona

Covered in IESG liaison update.


#### 10. POISSON–

Harald has proposed that we do away with the WG and its mailing list, and then charter individual groups when needed to deal with specific issues. General issues to IETF discussion list.


#### 11. Adobe/TIFF IPR issue

Adobe is expressing concerns about IPR in the FAX working group efforts. Still waiting back for a response from Xerox re. press release. Ned Freed (Apps co-AD) intends to get the statement out of Xerox and move the FAX documents on to the RFC Editor.




### OLD ACTION ITEMS


* Harald Alvestrand  

Arrange “International Internet” workshop/series of meetings.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Still: Given the increasing travel restrictions within most companies, the best plan to move forward seems to be: just finish existing documents on the table, via teleconference, and put the rest of it on hold until a clear, scoped problem statement can be formulated, and a face-to-face meeting is feasible.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter  

Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Still: Brian and Rob have re-reviewed RFC1958 and see 2 or 3 things that need attention — either as a revision of RFC1958, or a supplementary note. The goal is to get this done by the December IETF (Salt Lake City), with a hard limit of the March meeting.
* Leslie Daigle, John Klensin  

Revise the proposal for a workshop on “Survey of identifiers at all layers”
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Closed
	
		
		The workshop idea is set aside for the moment, to be revisited if/when appropriate. For the DNS layered search proposal, John Klensin is waiting on Leslie Daigle, Michael Mealling et al to provide further input on the “SLS” proposal for the layered directory approach. The goal is to have a revised set of documents by the time of the ICANN meetings in November.
* John Klensin  

Have a chat with Tim Berners-Lee re. ongoing relationship/liaising strategies between IETF/W3C.
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Increasingly an issue in PSO — one W3C participant is active, but the other has not been heard from in a year. John has had no progress in reaching Tim; several messages left.
* John Klensin, Geoff Huston  

Float proposal for revised protocol assignment framework.
	
	 [Jun01]  
	
	Ongoing
* Ran Atkinson  

(Definitive) history of the IETF; sit down with Mike St. Johns and nail down the names and players of the early years, in a format for public posting.
	
	 [Jul01]  
	
	Ongoing
* Steve Bellovin  

Talk to Bert Wijnen & Randy Bush re. “O&M Architecture” question, and see about scoping out a problem statement.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Done
	
		
		Erik Nordmark sent message to IESG per the agreement at our last meeting.
* John Klensin  

Talk to the IESG about IPR repository plan.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		John & Harald Alvestrand need to have a discussion with IESG & Secretariat. John & Harald are declared the committee to deal with this.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS


* Leslie Daigle  

Draft up IAB Considerations for CDI.
	[Oct01]


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS


* Ran Atkinson, Steve Bellovin  

Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-03.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Most of the work is done, but terminology changes need to be folded in. SteveB chatted with Eric Rescorla; Eric is willing to change the terminology in his document to align with the existing security terminology doc (Schnier). SteveB will work with him to include terminology updates & address Steve Kent comments.
* Harald Alvestrand  

Directory definitions.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-03.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		The IAB last call flushed out some comments from Leslie; to get agreement, more work is needed (in terms of terminology and definitions). John has notes on his own thinking — says it’s midway between Harald & Leslie. The agreement is that “Google” is not a directory, and we’ll work on the terminology to make that clearer.
* Steve Bellovin  

Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Jeff Schiller has taken this on, but no immediate progress.
* Geoff Huston  

Architectural Requirements for Inter-Domain Routing in the Internet
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-bgparch-02.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Time to ask RFC editor to proceed with publication. John Klensin will do so.
* Brian Carpenter  

Middle boxes: taxonomy and issues
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-carpenter-midtax-02.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Waiting on comments from Steve Deering, and then will be published as an individual submission. Definitely by March, preferrably by December.
* Henning Schulzrinne  

Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Detailed comments circulated on the IAB list. Ongoing out-of- band discussions.
* Leslie Daigle  

IETF PSO-PC Process
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-poisson-pso-appointments-00.txt>
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing.
	
		
		No progress yet. Leslie commits to getting the next revision out Real Soon Now.


### NEW DRAFTS


* Sally Floyd: IAB Considerations for OPES
	[Oct01]


### FUTURE MEETINGS



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Leslie Daigle; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](index.html). 


 Also, visit the IAB Web page at [http://www.iab.org](../index.html).
 




---


