
IAB Teleconference — July 10, 2001, 1500-1700 EDT
-------------------------------------------------


### ATTENDING



 John Klensin — IAB Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Steve Bellovin — Liaison to the IESG  

 Randy Bush — Liaison from the IESG  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Steve Deering  

 Sally Floyd  

 Erik Huizer — IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF  

 Geoff Huston  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Henning Schulzrinne  

Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC
 **REGRETS:**


 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Fred Baker  

Leslie Daigle

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING:


[IAB meeting at London IETF, Tuesday August 7, 2001, 0730-0900 GMT](IABmins.2001-08-07.html)

### AGENDA


1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings
	
	 . June 12, 2001 (as circulated July 4, 2001)
2. Review of Action Items
3. Review of current IAB documents
4. Liaison updates
5. Last call on “NOTE WELL” statement — for London
6. Ran Atkinson’s mailing list policy — where from here?
7. ICANN TLD panel — whom shall we send?
8. London IETF prep:
	
	 . Topics for discussion at our meeting with ITU  
	
	 . Topics for presentation at the IAB plenary in London
9. All other business


### NOTES


#### 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings

- June 12, 2001 (as circulated July 4, 2001)

 Accepted. 


#### 2. Review of Action Items

See below.


#### 3. Review of current IAB documents

See below.


#### 4. Liaison updates

**IESG:**  

 Nothing to report.
**IRTF:**  

 The end-to-end research group recently had their annual face-to-face meeting. A candidate for IRTF chair, Vern Paxson, has been selected and approached. The IRTF reins will be turned over to the new candidate at the Salt Lake City IETF meeting, but the new chair will participate in IAB meeting immediately after selection. One of the goals of the new IRTF chair will be to better integrate the IRTF with the general networking research community. 


**ISOC:**  

 ISOC is still looking for ISOC NomCom (nominations committee for the ISOC Board of Directors) candidates. Lynn St. Amour will accept suggestions, or direct inquiries to Christine Maxwell. 


#### 5. Last call on “NOTE WELL” statement — for London

The “NOTE WELL” statement outlines the policies regarding intellectual property issues related to participation in IETF meetings and mailing lists. An interim version will be in place for the London IETF, and further discussion is intended.


#### 6. Ran Atkinson’s mailing list policy — where from here?

Ran Atkinson has drafted a more detailed policy statement regarding IETF mailing lists, for both working groups and the IETF at-large mailing list. Based on input from the IAB and IESG, another IAB/IESG-internal draft will be circulated before the London IETF, with publication as an Internet Draft after that.


#### 7. ICANN TLD panel — whom shall we send?

ICANN is putting together a panel to study the procedure for creating new top-level domains (TLDs) and has asked John & Harald for suggested participants. Names will be provided shortly for ICANN’s consideration.


#### 8. London IETF prep:

- Topics for discussion at our meeting with ITU

 The IESG will meet with representatives of the ITU on Saturday in London, while the IAB will meet on Sunday morning and for lunch. Harald Alvestrand, Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston, John Klensin, Steve Deering, Steve Bellovin and Henning Schulzrinne committed to attending the Sunday meeting. Topics will include discussions on organizational interworking and division of labor, arriving at principles where the ITU and IETF should take the lead.
 

- Topics for presentation at the IAB plenary in London

 The IAB has been tentatively given a 45 minute slot at the London IETF plenary, but the IAB may ask for more time if needed. This slot includes time for the IRTF report (but not their separate technical presentation), the RFC editor report, the IANA report and time for an “open mike” session. It is hoped that the IAB open mike session will focus on technical rather than management issues. 


 It was agreed that the regular presenters (IRTF, RFC Editor, IANA) will shorten and focus their plenary presentations, while directing people to the more detailed reports available through applicable web pages (provided by URL reference). These reports are also to be announced via the IETF list, by reference. For example, the RFC editor suggested stressing future plans now that the ISOC contract renewal has been completed, or more graphical overviews of the growth in RFC publications, or other appropriate facets of RFC editor operation. The RFC editor will also inquire at the plenary what kind of information is of interest to the community. 


 Either for London or Salt Lake City, a more detailed presentation on how the IETF, and associated service organizations such as the Secretariat, the RFC editor and IANA, is funded is considered desirable. 


 With the regular presentations shortened, it was decided to use the bulk of the IAB plenary time to present an overview of some of the critical architectural issues under discussion within the IAB. One suggestion was to present a talk based on Steve Deering’s “hourglass” protocol architecture talk, enhanced by slides on other issues under consideration, including middle boxes, IP provisioning, security building blocks, IP telephony architectures. 


#### 9. All other business

Steve Bellovin raised the issue whether the time has come to take a more formal look at the architecture for network management, beyond the protocol-level specifications currently available. More detailed discussions with Randy Bush, Bert Wijnen and the IRTF research group are necessary to establish scope and desirability of such a project.


 The RFC editor has released an early draft of an update of RFC 1700, the “Assigned Numbers” RFC dating from October 1994. It remains to be worked out whether this update should come from IANA or the RFC editor. In general, it was considered desirable that the RFC1700 update provide a historical snapshot of the assignments as well as references to the current list, not just a URL referencing the IANA web pages. 



### OLD ACTION ITEMS


* Harald Alvestrand:  

Arrange “International Internet” workshop/series of meetings.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		 notes from the Montreal (April 20-21) meeting have been circulated to the IAB. Plans include setting up a next meeting in September, but Harald Alvestrand was not on call.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter:  

Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		to be followed up by Brian Carpenter after he revises the middleboxes draft.
* Steve Deering:  

put together a strawman of his view about what the scope of the Internet architecture is/should be in considering IETF work.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		notes have been circulated to the IAB, and been discussed on the mailing list. Steve Deering will try to create a new note reflecting the responses by the London meeting, or the item will be abandoned.
* Geoff Huston, Steve Deering, and Henning Schulzrinne:  

Put together a problem statement/charter for the IP provisioning problem, with timeframe for conclusion. Will later determine whether it’s IRTF or IETF material.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		no progress, report due by London.
* John Klensin: Send Brian’s drafted note to IRTF Routing RG spelling out research objectives for inter-domain routing improvements.
	
	 [pre-May01  
	
	 ] Done,
	
		but message seems to have been misrouted into a black hole; being retransmitted.
* Geoff Huston, Fred Baker:  

Subcommittee to report back to IAB next IETF (London) about progress of the inter-domain routing problem: understanding & proposals within the IETF.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		To be revisited at London IETF. Geoff will write a draft on what’s broken, indicating more clearly that just ‘fixing’ BGP4 is not going to have a positive result. The draft will be designed to be sufficiently clear to non-routing experts, to prevent the usual reaction of dismissing this as another call for a BGP tweak.
		 It remains to be determined where this activity should take place. There are conflicting reports about the activity level in the IRTF routing research group. Other avenues for routing work were discussed. As an example, the end-to-end RG has an active open-membership mailing list that is well known in the general research community (end2end-interest). This appears to be less the case for the equivalent routing list. Once apparent mailing list troubles are straightened out, it was suggested to make the existence of the list, and the related research issues, known by announcing them on widely read networking research mailing lists, such as end2end-interest, the IEEE TCCC and InternetTC lists.
		 
		
		
		 There are apparently several related proposals in the Multi6 effort, e.g., follow-up efforts to 8+8 addressing, geographic addressing.
		 
		
		
		 Eriz Huizer to ping Abha Ahuja and Sean Doran again to remind them of the IAB note.
* Henning Schulzrinne, Jon Crowcroft:  

See about organizing an ACM/IEEE focussed workshop on the subject of interdomain routing issues
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Backgrounded;
	
		to be discussed at London IETF.
* Geoff Huston:  

Bring the inter-domain routing issue to the IRTF Routing Group, e.g., to get the terminology sorted out.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		Geoff Huston is on IRTF mailing list, which has been dormant for some weeks now, either because of lack of activity or mailing list failure.
* Leslie Daigle, John Klensin:  

Revise the proposal for a workshop on “Survey of identifiers at all layers”
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		a proposal was circulated on IAB mailing list May 1. Need to refine the proposal so that it has a very clear focus for 2 days’ work and does not interfere with work of the IRTF Namespace Research Group (NSRG).
* John Klensin:  

Have a chat with Tim Berners-Lee re. ongoing relationship/liaising strategies between IETF/W3C.
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		 no progress to report.
* John Klensin:  

Discuss proposed IPR repository plan with IETF lawyers.
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing:
	
		After advice from lawyers, ask secretariat to do this since there were no objections. The note from the lawyer made several suggestions about how the IAB could announce and run such a repository without getting the IETF in trouble. Basically, the repository will focus in putting technical items or pointers in repository, returning (not editing) anything with non-technical content. We could use same style of the moderator-with-appeals model the IAB has been exploring for mailing lists. Next question is whether the IAB is ready enough to go forward with this to discuss with IESG and forward to secretariat for action.
* Steve Bellovin:  

Informal chat with local patent lawyers and report back re. what they would find useful in an IPR repository.
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		with chat planned for next week.
* John Klensin, Geoff Huston:  

Float proposal for revised protocol assignment framework.
	
	 [Jun01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		no progress due to difficulty of connecting with Stuart Lynn.
* Ran Atkinson:  

(Definitive) history of the IETF; sit down with Mike St. Johns and nail down the names and players of the early years, in a format for public posting.
	
	 [Jul01]  
	
	In progress.
	
		Draft for IAB review (not I-D) by London.


### NEW ACTION ITEMS


* Steve Deering, IAB:  

Circulate talk London IAB plenary presentation and, with Geoff Huston, prepare “critical near-term architectural issues” presentation.
	
	[Jul01]


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS


* Ran Atkinson, Steve Bellovin:  

Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-03.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		most of the work is done, but terminology changes need to be folded in. Discussions with Rescola are in progress.
* Harald Alvestrand:  

Directory definitions.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-02.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		revised (-02) version has been published, but with no further progress. John Klensin has further comments based on using the document; we expect another revision to be published after reconciling these views.
* Steve Bellovin:  

Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-iab-secmech-01.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		Jeff Schiller has taken this on, but no immediate progress.
* Geoff Huston:  

Architectural Requirements for Inter-Domain Routing in the Internet
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-bgparch-01.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		in RFC Editor queue since June 26, 2001.
* Brian Carpenter:  

Middle boxes: taxonomy and issues
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-carpenter-midtax-01.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		a number of comments have been received and Brian Carpenter will work on revision. A new draft expected pre-London.
* Henning Schulzrinne:  

 Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		folding in recent comments and docs and restructuring. I-D expected this week.
* Geoff Huston:  

 .arpa policy document
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arpa-02.txt>  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		currently in RFC editor queue. Scott Bradner provided some additional comments. Geoff Huston will notify RFC Editor to hold the document and will create a -03 revision accommodating the suggestions from Scott and the RFC editor.
* Leslie Daigle:  

 IETF PSO-PC Process
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-poisson-pso-appointments-00.txt>  
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing;
	
		
		Leslie circulated this draft, and the proposed revision (to have the IAB doing both PSO-PC appointments and ICANN Board member selection) to the former NomCom chairs. The input was inconclusive — there were strong opinions for NomCom taking care of both selections, and IAB taking care of both. To avoid causing harm to our ability to influence the PSO-PC selection by further delaying the decision, the IAB decided to announce the nomination of Vint Cerf to the IETF announcement list. Further discussion on how to handle this in the future will be held in London.


### FUTURE MEETINGS



IAB meetings at London IETF,

 Tuesday, August 7  

 0730 to 0900 and 1830 to …
 Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time. 





---


These minutes were prepared by Henning Schulzrinne; comments should be sent to  

iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](index.html). 


 Also, visit the IAB Web page at [http://www.iab.org](../index.html).
 




---


