
IAB Meeting — September 24, 2001, 15h00-17h00 US-ET
---------------------------------------------------


### ATTENDING



 John Klensin — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Steve Bellovin — Liaison to the IESG  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Sally Floyd  

 Geoff Huston  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

 Vern Paxson — Incoming IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Henning Schulzrinne  

Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC
 **REGRETS:**


 Fred Baker  

 Steve Deering  

Erik Huizer — IRTF Chair, liaison from the IRTF

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING:



Teleconference Tuesday October 9 (2001), 1500-1700 US East Coast time.


### AGENDA


1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings
	+ August 7, 2001 (as circulated September 5, 2001)
2. Review of Action Items (below)
3. Review of current IAB documents (below)
4. Liaison updates
5. Adobe/Xerox/Fax update
6. Midcom charter update
7. IAB pre-working group involvement
	+ General principle
	+ CDI — ??
	+ OPES — Sally


### NOTES


#### 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings

- August 7, 2001 (as circulated September 5, 2001)

 Accepted. 


#### 2. Review of Action Items

See below.


#### 3. Review of current IAB documents

See below.


#### 4. Liaison updates

**IESG:**  

No items of interest to report.
**IRTF:**  

 Vern Paxson reporting. On consultation with the RG chairs, the plan is to shut down “Internet Resource Discovery” RG. There hasn’t been any activity. Vern noted that he’d had an exchange of e-mail with some of the OPES folks, opening a dialogue about whether some of that work should take place in the IRTF rather than the IETF. 


**ISOC:**  

 Lynn St.Amour reports that Ted T’so has agreed to serve as the IETF NomCom chair for this year. 


**W3C:**  

 There was an IETF/W3C coordination teleconference on September 4. Some process issues were cleared, and overall coordination (about who’s doing what with BXXP, SOAP, etc) was discussed; no major course corrections seem called for in either organization. 


 Brian Carpenter asked if IPR was discussed. W3C is trying to get into a position where individual WGs may choose to require only royalty-free patented technology; “reasonable and non-discriminatory” license conditions would not be acceptable for the output of such WGs. Perhaps it should be discussed on the next coordination call. 


**ITU:**  

 ISOC has received the official liasion statement from ITU-T SG2 re. ENUM administrative issues. It is posted on the IAB website, at [http://www.iab.org/iab/documents/docs/itu.pdf](../docs/itu.pdf)



**PSO:**  

 The PSO is working on making a statement on the unique/multiple root issue. There is agreement in principle around the unique root statement in RFC2826, but ongoing discussion to ensure the PSO statement crisply says what we mean and only that. 


 ETSI has proposed a response to the ICANN At Large Study Group report. While it is fine as an ETSI statement, the IAB does not support it as a PSO reply. The IAB has a counter proposal which is focused strictly on the technical issues in At-Large proposal. 


#### 5. Adobe/Xerox/Fax update

Xerox has agreed to release intellectual property that Adobe asserted was holding them up. Xerox would like to make a press release. We agree to contribute words (in the form of a quote from John) to the effect that opening up IPR is beneficial to the open standards process.


#### 6. Midcom charter update

The issue is whether the charter should allow for “contact intermediary and find out what your real IP address is”. As understood, it seems like a kludge on a kludge. Rob Austein saw it as “moving the ALG function to the endpoint”. Henning sees it as something else, that couldn’t be done by fixing applications on the endpoint.


 Rob will formulate a message to the relevant AD’s, expressing the issue as we’ve understood it — as we understand it, it’s not appropriate to update the charter. If we’ve misunderstood, we need clarification. 


#### 7. IAB pre-working group involvement

General principle — need to know if we have the time to put in the effort to do this.


 OPES — Sally has worked hard to tease out the issues. Sounds like we need an “IAB considerations” statement here — something that they need to consider in creating the charter and before any eventual documents are accepted by the IESG. This could encompass: the end system notification requirement, privacy issues, and architectural issues in URI resolution short-circuiting. 



### OLD ACTION ITEMS


* Harald Alvestrand  

Arrange “International Internet” workshop/series of meetings.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Given the increasing travel restrictions within most companies, the best plan to move forward seems to be: just finish existing documents on the table, via teleconference, and put the rest of it on hold until a clear, scoped problem statement can be formulated, and a face-to-face meeting is feasible.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter  

Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Brian and Rob have re-reviewed RFC1958 and see 2 or 3 things that need attention — either as a revision of RFC1958, or a supplementary note. The goal is to get this done by the December IETF (Salt Lake City), with a hard limit of the March meeting.
* Geoff Huston, Steve Deering, and Henning Schulzrinne  

Put together a problem statement/charter for the IP provisioning problem, with timeframe for conclusion. Will later determine whether it’s IRTF or IETF material.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Closed
	
		
		This item closed from attrition of interest; to be re-opened if circumstances warrant.
* Henning Schulzrinne, Jon Crowcroft  

See about organizing an ACM/IEEE focussed workshop on the subject of interdomain routing issues
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Closed
	
		
		Jon Crowcroft reports that hallway conversations at SIGCOMM nad other ACM meetings suggest that there is sufficient awareness in that community about the nature of the problem.
* Leslie Daigle, John Klensin  

Revise the proposal for a workshop on “Survey of identifiers at all layers”
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		To be reconsidered in the light of DNS layered search proposal — deferred to next call.
* John Klensin  

Have a chat with Tim Berners-Lee re. ongoing relationship/liaising strategies between IETF/W3C.
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		No progress. Several messages left.
* John Klensin, Geoff Huston  

Float proposal for revised protocol assignment framework.
	
	 [Jun01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Still ongoing, in the context of discussions about the PSO.
* Ran Atkinson  

(Definitive) history of the IETF; sit down with Mike St. Johns and nail down the names and players of the early years, in a format for public posting.
	
	 [Jul01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Ran has contacted Bob Braden & Vint Cerf for contributions.
* Steve Bellovin  

Talk to Bert Wijnen & Randy Bush re. “O&M Architecture” question, and see about scoping out a problem statement.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Steve has talked with Bert & Randy, as well as others in the “operations & management” community. There is a general feeling that the IAB doesn’t have a lot of value to add to the discussion of general operations issues at this time. In short, Bert is doing a fine job, and we defer to his efforts in the area. The IAB is willing to provide backing, if desired, to shutting down some of the more abstract, less operational, work being done.
* John Klensin  

Talk to the IESG about IPR repository plan.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Ongoing
* John Klensin  

Follow-up with Harald Alvestrand, Patrik Faltstrom (APPS area director) re. potential for IAB work with OPES & CDI.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Done
	
		
		Update pursued as a separate agenda item.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS


* Ran Atkinson, Steve Bellovin  

Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-03.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Most of the work is done, but terminology changes need to be folded in. SteveB chatted with Eric Rescorla; Eric is willing to change the terminology in his document to align with the existing security terminology doc (Schnier). SteveB will work with him to include terminology updates & address Steve Kent comments.
* Harald Alvestrand  

Directory definitions.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-alvestrand-directory-defs-03.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		New (-03) version published. This is expected to be “it”. John Klensin would like to see it go out as an IAB document, but is concerned that not enough of the IAB has read it. Harald is willing to let it go as an individual contribution. Leslie Daigle will post an “IAB last call” to make sure it has significant readership.We will revisit on the next teleconference, in 2 weeks.
* Steve Bellovin  

Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Jeff Schiller has taken this on, but no immediate progress.
* Geoff Huston  

Architectural Requirements for Inter-Domain Routing in the Internet
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-bgparch-01.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Detailed comments back from Abha Ahuja. Geoff responded to the comments, and there is general agreement with the content of his reply — editorial/cosmetic changes (including the title change from “requirements” to “commentary”) have been done, but there is disagreement with many of the more substantive issues. The plan is to go ahead and publish the editorially- revised version as an IAB document (informational), as it does represent the consensus of the IAB. At the same time, the IAB recognizes that it would be perfectly appropriate for a rebuttal document to be published by persons having a strongly differing viewpoint.
* Brian Carpenter  

Middle boxes: taxonomy and issues
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-carpenter-midtax-02.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Waiting on comments from Steve Deering, and then will be published as an individual submission. Definitely by March, preferrably by December.
* Henning Schulzrinne:  

Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Detailed comments circulated on the IAB list. Ongoing out-of- band discussions.
* Geoff Huston:  

.arpa policy document
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arpa-03.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Done.
	
		
		Published as RFC3172/BCP52.
* Leslie Daigle:   

 IETF PSO-PC Process
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-poisson-pso-appointments-00.txt>
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		No progress yet.


### FUTURE MEETINGS



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Leslie Daigle; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](index.html). 


 Also, visit the IAB Web page at [http://www.iab.org](../index.html).
 




---


