
Minutes 
 IAB Meeting — Teleconference
--------------------------------------


**11 June 2002, 3:00pm – 4:40pm US EST** 


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Sally Floyd  

 Ted Hardie  

 Geoff Huston  

 Jim Kempf  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Mike St. Johns  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG   

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC


### APOLOGIES



 Steve Deering  

 Charlie Kaufman  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, July 9, 2002.


### AGENDA


[0.](#0) Rollcall, Agenda Bash and [Previous Minutes](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-05-14/)  

[1.](#1) Review of Action Items  

[2.](#2) Review of Documents  

[3.](#3) Liaison Reports  

[4.](#4) Review of IAB Role Description (“[What does the IAB do, anyway?](/about/description/)“)  

[5.](#5) Preparation for Yokohama IAB Meetings  

 6. AOB


### NOTES


**0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes**
 Minutes of previous meeting ([14 May 2002](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-05-14/)) confirmed.
 
 **1. Review of Action Items** 


 ( [below](#actions))
 
 **2. Review of Documents** 


 ([below](#documents))
 
 **3. Liaison Reports** 

**IESG**:  

 As a followup to comment from the IESG, the IAB reviewed the process used in reaching a position regarding a response to the Committee on ICANN Evolution and Reform. It was noted that there was no process failure in this instance, and the IAB has the responsibility for managing external liaisons for the IETF. It was noted that there is an exercise of judgement as to the manner of consultation undertaken by the IAB in each case. It was noted that further clarification could be undertaken on the roles and responsibilities of the management entities within the IETF by updating the IAB role description documents and consideration of an IESG charter.
 **PSO-PC**:  

 The PSO General Assembly will take place on Wednesday, 19 June, at the ITU Headquarters, Geneva, starting at 16:00 CET. No IETF nominee is available for this meeting, so a request will be made for an observer to attend and report on the meeting.  

 The ISO application to join the PSO was reconsidered, and further clarification was to be sought by the PSO regarding ISO’s conformance to the PSO eligibility criteria. 


 **ISOC**:  

 Lynn St Amour provided a general outline of the potential role of ISOC within a .org registry proposal, and the desired outcomes for ISOC in this activity. The proposal will be forwarded to the IAB at the expiration of non- disclosure conditions associated with the preparation of the proposal.
 


**4. Review of IAB Role Description (“[What does the IAB do, anyway?](/about/description/)“)**


 Due to time constraints for this call, consideration of the need to update this document was deferred to the IAB list.

**5. Preparation for Yokohama IAB Meetings**


 An IAB retreat is planned for Sunday July 14 to discuss the IETF structure of external relationships, and consider various scenarios and options for the IETF in this area. The initial planning call is scheduled for Friday 14 June. The ISOC VP Standards, Scott Bradner, the immediate past IAB chair, John Klensin and the Chair of the ISOC Board, Brian Carpenter are invited onto the call to review the broader IETF structure as it exists today. A second planning call is scheduled for Wednesday 26 June to discuss external relationships and the IETF’s role.  

 The IAB plenary is scheduled for the evening of Thursday, 19 July. The proposed plenary agenda includes a presentation from the IRTF on the topic of a report from Eliot Lear on matters considered by the NameSpace research group. The IAB report is intended to include a summary of recent IAB documents and documents in progress, preliminary report from the IAB Network Management workshop, and a report on the IAB response to the ICANN Reform process. The documents to be reported are proposed to be “IAB Considerations” and “Security Considerations”. The IAB discussed the structure for the open microphone section of the Plenary, and concluded that the use of two microphones, one for new topics and the other for continued responses to the current topic, was of some benefit. It was proposed that in addition to a time constraint of 2 minutes per speaker, a topic time limit of 15 minutes per current topic be used, allowing the topic to be rescheduled to the end of the new topic queue. It was proposed that the IETF Secretariat operate the timers. It was suggested that this arrangement be announced in advance on the IETF Announce list.


 


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENT STATUS SUMMARY


### Actions

+ **Mobile Networks Workshop proposal**
	James Kempf  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Status: A draft has been prepared of a proposal for a workshop to examine the issue of network interoperability with active boundary gateways, such as found in 3G architectures, without resorting to ALGs and proxies.
		* 1. pass this proposal to the Transport ADs and consult with them over the appropriate course of action
		* 2. prepare a problem statement for IAB review
+ **IAB Retreat – Sunday pm, July 14, Yokohame IETF venue**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Venue request lodged with IETF Secretariat
+ **IAB Mailer**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* redelegation of iab.org to IETF Secretariat DNS requested
+ **IAB Network Management Workshop**
	Ran Atkinson  
	
	 [Feb 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Status: Workshop completed, with a number of outcomes, including the proposal for the IETF to investigate configuration management without specific reference to SNMP-based approaches. A BOF on this topic will be scheduled for Yokahama.
		* Workshop report to be prepared.
+ **PSO General Assembly**
	Lynn St Amour  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Suggest an observer to attend PSO GA in Geneva for the IETF
+ **ISO Liaisons**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*Completed*
		* Status: ISO SC2 liaison is Pete Resnick and ISO SC29 liaison is Steve Casner. Directory Liaison is now part of SC6, where the current liaison is Allison Mankin.
+ **ENUM**
	Leslie Daigle, Lynn St Amour  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*Completed*
		* Status: [Statement on ENUM](../docs/enum-pr.html) released
+ **RFC Submission review**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Circulate proposed process for review to IAB and IESG
		* Investigate web and email support tools
+ **ITU Liaison**
	James Kempf, Leslie Daigle, Scott Bradner  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*Completed*
		* Status: Established a mailer for IAB/IESG participants

### Documents

+ **IAB Considerations**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-considerations-00.txt>
	Sally Floyd, Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec 01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* 1. Sally to undertake final review and then pass to Leslie
		* 2. Leslie to pass over for IESG / IAB last call
		* 3. Leslie to announce an IETF “Call for input” prior to submission as an Informational RFC
+ **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-05.txt>
	Eric Rescorla, Erik Nordmark  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Status: Entered into IESG document tracking system.
		* Erik Nordmark to initiate IESG review as a proposed BCP document prior to IETF Last Call
+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt>
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* 1. Harald’s comments to be integrated into document
		* 2. To be submitted as an Internet Draft
+ **Internet Telephony Architecture**  

<http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/tmp/iabvoip.pdf>
	Jim Kempf, Henning Schulzrinne  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* 1. Henning to publish as a pair of individual drafts and gather feedback.
		* 2. Upon review of feedback determine whether there is value in taking this on as an IAB document, or progressing this as an individual submission.
+ **IETF PSO-PC Process**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-pso-appointments-00.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [May01]  
	
	*stalled*
		* Awaiting clear signals from ICANN regarding future of PSO(-PC)
+ **IAB Considerations for UNilateral Self-Address Fixing (UNSAF)**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unsaf-considerations-01.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jan02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* IETF comments recieved and circulated. a revised version is due
+ **Recent Changes in the Architecture of the Internet**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt>
	Rob Austein  
	
	 [Mar02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Rob to undertake further edits
+ **A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

<http://www.rtfm.com/auth-mech.txt>
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Apr02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Status: Comments received from Fred and Mike with different perspectives (reduce choice set vs specific tools for each use domain)
		* Eric to edit the draft by highlighting these differing perspectives, and submit as an iab Internet draft


### FUTURE MEETINGS



 Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


