
Minutes 
 IAB Meeting — Teleconference
--------------------------------------


**9 April 2002, 3:00pm – 5:00pm US EST**


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Steve Deering  

 Sally Floyd  

 Ted Hardie  

 Geoff Huston  

 Charlie Kaufman  

 Jim Kempf  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Mike St. Johns  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG   

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, May 14, 2002.


### AGENDA



 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes  

 1. Review of Action Items  

 2. Review of Documents  

 3. Liaison Reports  

 4. ICANN Reform Process – IAB response?  

 5. IAB Workshops – Update  

 6. IAB Mailing List Administration  

 7. ISOC BoT Nomination


### NOTES



 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes

 Minutes of previous meetings (12 March 2002, 19 March 2002) confirmed.
 
 1. Review of Action Items 


 ( [below](#actions))
 
 2. Review of Documents 


 ([below](#documents))
 
 3. Liaison Reports 

**IESG**:  

 It was reported that the IESG draft tracking system is expected to be made available to the IAB chair and IAB liaison.
 **PSO-PC**:  

 It was noted that an application from ISO has been recieved by the PSO. Given the current activity within ICANN relating to evolution and reform and the potential for outcomes that will have substantial impact on the current role and composition of the PSO, it was considered that an appropriate course of action for the IETF members of the PSO-PC would be to advise the PSO PC of a desire to defer this application until the PSO’s future is clearer. 


 **RFC Editor**:  

 Is was reported that The RFC Editor is preparing an Internet Draft on the topic of guidelies on how to manage extended lists of contributors to RFCs. The RFC Editor is also undertaking activity on use of XML for RFCs and also RFC indexing, as well as augmenting the RFC document search activity as part of the program of improvmenmts to the RFC Editor’s document service. Work is also underway to improve the visibility of the status of documents that are within the RFC Editor’s queue. 


 **ISOC**:  

 It was reported that current activity is associated with the implementation of the new governance model. Some clarification was provided regarding the procedures of the IETF nominees to the ISOC Board of Trustees. 


 **IRTF**:  

 The IRTF chair reported on three items that wil be followed up via email:
 


 1. Crypto RG – It was noted that this is not a standards-setting exercise. Some coordination with the IESG will be undertaken in setting up this RG.  

 2. It is intended to move the effort associated with the Manet WG into the IRTF to allow a re-focussing of this effort as a research activity. Comment was requested regarding the structure of this as either a sub-group of the Routing RG or as a distinct RG.  

 3. Some comment was requested on the Services Management RG, and the more general question of RGs with immediate relevance to IETF activities versus RGs oriented towards considerably longer-term possibilities.
 
 **ISO**:  

 Harald indicated that he will step down as liaison to ISO JTC SC2, SC18 and SC29, and new liaisons are sought. It is proposed that the IAB forward a request for SC2 (character sets) liaisons to the APPs ADs, SC18/21 (directores and X.400) to the APPs ADs and SC29 (multimedia and avt) to the Transport ADs to consider suitable liaisons from their area directorates or WGs.
 


 4. ICANN Reform Process – IAB response?


 The IAB discussed the option of submitting a position paper into the ICANN evolution and reform process. Geoff will draft a response that outlines points of principle that the IAB believes would be appropriate to see in the outcomes of this ICANN process.

 5. IAB Workshops – Update

**Network Management Workshop**:  

 This is scheduled for June, hosted at CNRI facilities. The list of potential attendees is being reviewed by the workshop organizers. A list is anticipated to be circulated to the IAB in the week of the 15th April.
 **Mobile Networks**:  

 James Kempf reported a positive response to the proposal from the wireless directorate, and a problem statement is being prepared. This document is intended to be used to guage interest levels as to whether to proceed with a workshop on this topic. Some focus on a small number of quite specific aspects of this domain was considered to be of value in scoping the workshop.
 


 **IAB Retreat**:  

 It was proposed to hold an IAB retreat on the morning or afternoon of Sunday July 14, at Yokohama. The retreat is intended to focus on the status of external relationships and arrangements undertaken by the IETF. 


 6. IAB Mailing List Administration


 Some concern was expressed at the level of spam on the IAB mailer. Leslie will ask the IESG Secretariat about the filtering arrangements used by the IESG and whether a similar structure can be deployed to support the IAB mailer.

 7. ISOC BoT Nomination


 [ *Liaison members and the IAB member candidate dropped off the call for this item.*]
 The IAB considered the qualifications of the nominees with respect to the envisaged role of the IETF nominees on the ISOC Board. 


 The IAB determined to nominate Fred Baker for a three year term of office and Erik Huizer for a two year term. These names will be passed to the IESG for confirmation of the nomination. 




### Actions



* Mobile Networks Workshop proposal
	James Kempf  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*new*
		- prepare a problem statement for IAB review
* IAB Retreat
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*new*
		- schedule a venue in the IETF hotel – Sunday am or pm
* IAB Mailer
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*new*
		- talk to Steve Coya regarding use by the IAB mailing of spam filter measures similar to those used by the IESG mailer
* IAB review of individual submissions to RFC Editor
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- obtain more information from Steve Coya and prepare a draft proposal
* IAB Network Managment Workshop
	Ran Atkinson  
	
	 [Feb 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- Circulate list of potential attendees to IAB



### Documents



* <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-klensin-dns-role-02.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Mar 02]  
	
	**closed**
		
		 Consideration that while it could be useful to have an IAB document that takes a sharp look at the role of the DNS with careful justification of its perspective, the extended timescale to prepare such a document, and its utility in terms of assisting the IDN issues indicate that this is not a activity that IAB comment could be of direct assistance.
		- Leslie to send a note to John indicating that this document will not be an IAB document.
* <http://www.icir.org/floyd/papers/draft-iab-considerations-00a.txt>
	Sally Floyd  
	
	 [Dec 01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- Suggestion to make the case studies stronger and make the arguments strong, crisp and unequivocal in order to avoid potential misunderstanding in subsequent interpretation of the document.
* <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-04.txt>
	Ran Atkinson, Eric Rescorla  
	
	 Security considerations, including common security attacks  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- Incorporate Ran’s comments
		- Propose incorporation of Allison Mankin’s comments re switch VRRP example with RFC2747 example security considerations – awaiting feedback from Steve Bellovin on this.
* [draft-iab-secmech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt)
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 Security Mechanisms for the Internet  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- adoption as an IAB document?
* <http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/tmp/iabvoip.pdf>
	Jim Kempf, Henning Schulzrinne  
	
	 Internet Telephony Architecture  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- Propose to Henning to publish as an individual draft submission and gather feedback. Upon review of feedback determine whether there is value in taking this on as an IAB document, or progressing this as an individual submission.
* <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-pso-appointments-00.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 IETF PSO-PC Process  
	
	 [May01]  
	
	*stalled*
		- Awaiting clear signals from ICANN regarding future of PSO(-PC)
* <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unsaf-considerations-01.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 IAB Considerations for UNilateral Self-Address Fixing (UNSAF)  
	
	 [Jan02] *ongoing*
		- Note sent to secretariat to solicit IETF-wide input (timeout 15 April). Document editor to receive notes and send digest format.
* <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt>
	Rob Austein  
	
	 Recent Changes in the Architecture of the Internet  
	
	 [Mar02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		- Rob to undertake further edits
* <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3245.txt>
	John Klensin  
	
	 ENUM Backgrounder  
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	***done***


### FUTURE MEETINGS



 Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](/documents/minutes/)



 IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


