
Minutes 
 IAB Meeting — Meeting
-------------------------------


**16 July 2002, 7:30am – 9:00am JST  

16 July 2002, 7:30pm – 10:00pm JST**


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Steve Deering  

 Sally Floyd  

 Ted Hardie  

 Geoff Huston  

 Charlie Kaufman  

 Jim Kempf  

 Mike St. Johns  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG   

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair


### APOLOGIES



 Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, August 13, 2002.


### AGENDA


[0.](#0) Rollcall, Agenda Bash and [Previous Minutes](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-06-11/)  

[1.](#1) Review of Action Items  

[2.](#2) Review of Documents  

[3.](#3) Liaison Reports  

[4.](#4) ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment Process  

[5.](#5) ISO liaisons  

[6.](#6)Technical Discussion


### NOTES


**0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes**
 Minutes of previous meeting ([11 June 2002](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-06-11/)) confirmed.
 
**1. Review of Action Items**


 (
 [below](#actions))
 



 **2. Review of Documents** 



 ([below](#documents))
 

 **3. Liaison Reports** 


**IESG**:  

 It was reported that the IESG had been considering the processes involved with the RFC publication process in relation to documents associated with the 3GPP activities. While the imposition of a document preparation time schedule was considered to be useful, there was some concern that the reservation of RFC document numbers would be mis- interpreted as setting a precedent. It was reported that there was a level of confusion over the precise nature of the requirements in this matter, and that its resolution has assisted in clarifying roles and responsibilities.
 **RFC EDITOR**:  

 The RFC Editor’s relationship to the IESG and IAB was considered. It was agreed that while a close working relationship with the IESG was entirely in the best interests of the IETF, consideration of actions that involve changes to the RFC publication process, or issues that may involve some level of setting of precedence should include the IAB liaison. 


 The RFC Editor indicated that the published turnaround for RFC publication is between 1 and 2 months, and while the current queue has a 1 month publication editing turnaround, this is not a preferred situation from the perspective of the RFC Editor. 


 **IRTF**:  

 The Measurement Research Group will proceed along the lines of the edited charter. The Cryptography Research Group will also be chartered as a mailing list forum. 


 The state of the Name Space research effort was considered, and is was suggested as being desireable to allow a 6 month period in order for a report from this effort to be published and considered by the IETF and the research community. Interest levels to continue with this effort will be polled at the end of this period. 


 It was reported that the research component of the MANET agenda will be incorporated as a sub-group of the Routing Research Group, and there is consideration of a Simulation Research Group that has arisen from discussion of simulation needed in the development of routing protocols. 


 **ISOC**:  

 Fred Baker, Chair of the ISOC Board of Trustees, reported on ISOC. The IAB discussed the current status of ISOC with respect to its activities and financial situation. The President of ISOC will be writing a financial situation report to allow the IAB to assess the current situation in more detail. 


 **ITU-T**:  

 There are two outstanding liaison documents that require some IAB response relating to the management of the e164.arpa domain. The IAB understands that the ITU-T has invested effort in establishing relationships with the IAB’s designated technical operator for e164.arpa (RIPE NCC), and the ITU-T is concerned that the current e164.arpa management process description appears to suggest that the IAB can change the designation of the technical operator for e164.arpa without adequate consideration of the ITU’s involvement and processes. 


 **W3C**:  

 There has been a recent coordination call with the W3C. The W3C are considering a revision to the IETF’s URI standards, and proposed this as a joint IETF W3C activity if this is to proceed. 


 **PSO-PC and ICANN**:  

 The IAB noted that the ICANN Board resolution to adopt the evolution and reform blueprint implies that the PSO will be dissolved. The IAB noted the continuing activity program of the PSO, and requested that the IAB chair write to the President of ICANN requesting clarification regarding the current status of the PSO and the anticipated schedule for the winding up of the PSO. In the light of this level of uncertainty regarding the residual activities of the PSO-PC, the IAB suggested that the IETF members of the PSO-PC cast votes on PSO decisions in such a manner that the PSO refrain from making any binding decisions in this interim period. 


 The IAB also reviewed the ICANN blueprint for evolution and reform and referred the manner of the IAB’s participation in the proposed Technical Advisory Committee to the IAB chair for further consultation with ICANN.
 



**4. ISOC Board Appointment process**



 The IAB noted that it will be called upon annually to nominate an individual to serve a three year term on the ISOC Board of Trustees.
 The IAB agreed to draft a process that would be presented to the November 2002 IETF Plenary that proposes IAB management of a nomination and evaluation process. The plenary session would be used to describe the proposed process and IETF review and comment would be requested. 



**5. IETF Process**



 The IAB discussed reports that it is taking an increasing amount of time to propose work to the IETF and an increasing amount of time to progress work through the IETF process. It was noted that no individual roles or actions within the IETF process were being examined, but an overall observation of the operation of the entire IETF process. The overall objective implied by these reports was one of establishing whether an re-examination of the IETF process and its operation could reveal ways and means to make this process in some ways faster and more efficient in its operation. Some views were expressed regarding the increasing complexity of technology models being adopted by the IETF in its activities, as well as views regarding the scaling the volume of IETF activities.
 The IAB will reconsider this topic after reviewing collected experiences, and consulting wth the IESG regarding this matter. It is intended to carefully consider potential avenues for constructive discussion on the overall current effectiveness of the operation of the IETF process as a precusor to any potential IAB actions in the matter.. 



**6. Technical Discussion**


 **Referential Integrity** 


 The IAB discussed the issue of referential integrity. The particular instance of this issue that was used as an example is that of the potential for the same domain name to be mapped to both A (IPv4) and quadA (IPv6) records where the two records may refer to different systems and, potentially, different services. It was noted that one of the issues here is the desire to consider the two transport networks, V4 and V6, as a single entity, and regard the different transport protocols as a stage within a longer term transition. It was commented that the desire to make the interoperability of the two systems indistinguishable at the symbolic level then implies some requirement for the same “name” to map to the same “service” at a generic level. A very succinct summary of the outcomes of the IAB discussion was the general objective that a change of transport protocol should not implicitly invoke a new context when sharing the use of a name or when using a common symbol set. 


 **Use of BGP as a Generic Transport** 


 The IAB briefly discussed aspects of a number of technical proposals that have been brought to the IETF where the BGP protocol is used to carry various payloads including various forms of DNS payloads and VPN identification tags. While this can be regarded as a form of protocol re-use, there was deep concern that there was also the possibility of protocol overload with subsequent operational implications. 


 More specifically, it was observed that BGP is a signalling protocol that is designed for, and used to, support a distributed shared state across a network domain. There is an important distinction between this functionality and a generic transport protocol and, accordingly, BGP is seen as an inappropriate protocol choice as a more generic transport utility.
 



 


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS



### Actions

+ **Mobile Networks Workshop proposal**
	James Kempf  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*updated*
		* Status: Workshop proposal circulated for IAB review
+ **IAB Mailer**
	Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Status: IAB mailer re-homed, iab.org zone redelegation pending
		* redelegation of iab.org to IETF Secretariat DNS requested
		* Exec DIr web site maintenance requirements to be implemented
+ **IAB Network Management Workshop**
	Ran Atkinson, Juergen Schoenwaelder  
	
	 [Feb 02]  
	
	*updated*
		* Status: Workshop completed, workshop report to be prepared
		* Configuration management items to be considered an IETF BOF
		* Check status of report with Juergen in August 2002
+ **RFC Submission review**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		* Circulate proposed process for review to IAB and IESG
		* Investigate web and email support tools
+ **ICANN Evolution and Reform Followup**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Followup actions arising from IAB submission
+ **PSO-PC**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Request current PSO-PC status from ICANN
+ **IAB Research Agenda**
	Sally Floyd  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet. This includes documenting important topics for research.< (assisted by Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcoft)
+ **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Document a process proposal for plenary review at November IETF
+ **Response to ITU-T over e164.arpa Arrangements**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Respond to issues raised about IAB intentions regarding the operation of the e164.arpa domain zone
+ **IETF Process Review**
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		* Draft a document that enumerates some examples and sets a background for continued discussion of this topic.


### Closed / Completed Actions

+ **IAB Retreat – Sunday pm, July 14, Yokohame IETF venue**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Apr 02]  
	
	*closed*
		* Venue request lodged with IETF Secretariat
+ **ISO Liaisons**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*closed*
		* Contact nominated IETF liaisons and forward details to ISO
+ **ENUM**
	Leslie Daigle, Lynn St Amour  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*closed*
		* Lynn to coordinate with Leslie, Patrick and Fred on drafting IAB statement on ENUM
		* Leslie to refer reserved code handling to Patrick for comment
+ **ITU Liaison**
	James Kempf, Leslie Daigle, Scott Bradner  
	
	 [May 02]  
	
	*closed*
		* Established a mailer for IAB/IESG participants

### Documents

+ **IAB Considerations**  

[draft-iab-considerations-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-considerations-00.txt)
	Sally Floyd  
	
	 [Dec 01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. Awaiting for an additional paragraph for Section 10 from Charlie Kaufmann
		2. Leslie to pass over for IESG / IAB last call
		3. Leslie to announce an IETF “Call for input” prior to submission as an Informational RFC.
+ **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-05.txt>
	Ran Atkinson, Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. Complete IESG Review
		2. Leslie to announce an IETF “Call for input” prior to submission as an Informational RFC.
+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt>
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. IAB review
		2. Leslie to announce an IETF “Call for input” prior to submission as an Informational RFC.
+ **Internet Telephony Architecture**  

<http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/tmp/iabvoip.pdf>
	Jim Kempf, Henning Schulzrinne  
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. James Kempf to pass drafts to Internet Drafts editor as an individual submission from Henning
		2. Upon review of feedback determine whether the appropriate step is to progress this as an IAB document, or as an individual submission.
+ **IAB Considerations for UNilateral Self-Address Fixing (UNSAF)**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unsaf-considerations-02.txt>
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jan02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. Leslie to make an IAB last call prior to submission as an Informational RFC.
+ **Recent Changes in the Architecture of the Internet**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt>
	Rob Austein  
	
	 [Mar02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. Rob to undertake further edits
+ **A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt>
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Apr02]  
	
	*ongoing*
		1. Draft published for comment
+ **Referential Integrity**
	Fred Baker, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	 [Jul 02]  
	
	*new*
		1. Draft a document that describes the issues associated with referential integrity.


### FUTURE MEETINGS



 Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:iab-execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


