
IAB Meeting — March 12, 2002, 15h00-17h00 US-ET
-----------------------------------------------


### ATTENDING



 John Klensin — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Steve Bellovin — Liaison to the IESG  

 Jon Crowcroft  

 Leslie Daigle  

 Steve Deering  

 Sally Floyd  

 Ted Hardie — IAB member elect  

 Geoff Huston  

 Charlie Kaufman — IAB member elect  

 Jim Kempf — IAB member elect  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Eric Rescorla — IAB member elect  

 Henning Schulzrinne   

Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC
 **REGRETS:**


 Ran Atkinson  

 Brian Carpenter  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Mike St. Johns — IAB member elect

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING:



Meeting at IETF 53, March 19, 2002


### AGENDA


1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings
	+ February 12, 2002 as circulated March 8, 2002.
	+ February 15, 2002 (executive meeting), as circulated March 8, 2002.
2. Preparation for discussion with Stuart Lynn re. IETF role in proposed ICANN changes
3. IAB transition
	+ Point of handoff
	+ BoF evaluation — process review & sign up
	+ Plan for Chair election
4. Review of Action Items (below)
5. Review of current IAB documents (below)
6. Liaison updates
7. Clarification of proposed IETF role in ICANN draft changes (with Stuart Lynn)


### NOTES


#### 1. Acceptance of minutes of past meetings

- February 12 and 15, (as circulated March 8, 2002)

 Accepted. 


#### 2. Preparation for discussion with Stuart Lynn re. IETF role in proposed ICANN changes

General discussion to scope the questions to Stuart Lynn, focusing on getting clarification with respect to the intended role of the IETF in the proposed ICANN restructuring.


#### 3. IAB transition

Point of handoff:

 Traditionally, do this “during” the IAB plenary. All IAB folk will come up to the stage and stay up for the session.


 BoF evaluation — process review & sign up:

 We need to cover all BoFs – with some of the new and some of the old IAB members. The task is to attend the session, provide a brief summary and perspective on likelihood of success as a WG effort, and then send the e-mail as soon as possible afterwards — to the IAB and the IESG.
 


 Plan for Chair election:

 It it is the task of the new IAB to elect the chair for the next year. General agreement — do the election by Tuesday PM. Sally Floyd suggests: John Klensin should send around note asking people interested in being considered to send a note to the IAB list. Steve Deering suggests: don’t eject outgoing IAB folks from discussion.


#### 4. Review of Action Items

 (below)

#### 5. Review of current IAB documents

 (below)

#### 6. Liaison updates

**IESG:** 


Patrik Faltstrom will do stringprep at the IESG plenary.
 The IESG is continuing to work with the Secretariat to do document tracking.
 


 There is a question from IESG re. UNSAF document: IESG doesn’t have a problem with it (is happy with it as a tool). But, do we want to have more community review? Answer: yes, we have said that from the outset. We need a message that is like a last call announcement. Opportunity to provide input into the IAB, not to the document. Not a “last call”. Leslie Daigle to draft text. 


**IRTF:** 


Potential presentations for IRTF can’t make it to Minneapolis. But, probably will have 2 for Yokohama.
 Vern Paxson asks for someone to help him understand the character set issues for Eric Brunner-Williams who wants a characterset RG. 


 Internet Resource Discovery RG has been closed. Plan to close Interplanetary Internet (work is all happening elsewhere) and BuDS (Building Differentiated Services). 


**ISOC:** 


Board has voted to move to a new governance model: more representation on the board by specific constituencies. IETF is one such representative.
 John Klensin has put in the ietf-announce queue a request for proposals to the ISOC BoT. New IAB will have to decide what to do in terms of process for (s)election — IAB or NomCom. 


 Need to have appointees known by the 28th of May. Should have procedures in Alan Greenberg’s hands 6 weeks in advance of that. 


**W3C:**


March 11 — had a coordination call. General update on what different areas are doing. Specific action item to follow re. IANA identification of media types/protocol parameters (suggestion for persistence of path names). Needs to hit agenda for Sunday IESG discussion.

**ITU:** 


ENUM — punted to next week.

**PSO:**


Next call is March 14. Will have to talk about the proposed ICANN restructuring, and decide whether there is a joint PSO position, or just individual member SDO statements.

#### 7. Clarification of proposed IETF role in ICANN draft changes (with Stuart Lynn)

Stuart Lynn: the proposal he put on the table was not intended as an ending point, but a starting point; he would like to have comments from people. His feeling is that the present structure means that IETF gets mixed into and lost in the PSO.


 John Klensin asks for a timeframe. It’s a proposal, need to agree on the what, before the how. Bucharest in June is a target for getting initial agreement. Need something to be formally approvable by the Shanghai meeting in mid-October. Means that comments and input would be most appreciated a month before Bucharest (in June). 



### OLD ACTION ITEMS


* Harald Alvestrand:  

Arrange “International Internet” workshop/series of meetings.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Closed.
	
		
		There is much work to be done in the area of internationalization, but there are no clear, scoped steps from here, yet.
* John Klensin, Harald Alvestrand:  

Find co-chair for IntLoc effort
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Closed
	
		
		See above.
* Rob Austein and Brian Carpenter:  

Review and potentially update RFC 1958.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Done
	
		
		Published as draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt (moved to documents in progress).
* John Klensin:  

Talk to the IESG about IPR repository plan.
	
	 [Aug01]  
	
	Done
	
		
		John Klensin: this is done; handed to IETF Chair for execution (no longer any IAB action)
* Sally Floyd:  

First cut on “Architectural Considerations” document — a generalization of the discussions we’ve had about OPES, CDI, and glorp/shipworm.
	
	 [Dec01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		A draft is available at  
		
		<http://www.icir.org/floyd/papers/draft-iab-considerations-00a.txt>  
		
		 — not yet published as an I-D.
* Henning Schulzrinne, Mike St.Johns:  

(Definitive) history of the IETF website
	
	 [Jan02]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Proposed next step: post on IAB website, and find new designee to polish it. Geoff Huston & Steve Deering (who had comments on earlier versions) sign off. Designee: general concensus that it should be Mike St.Johns (not on the call).
* John Klensin:  

Redraft and ship commentary on .bz delegation proposal
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Done
* John Klensin:  

Note to IETF announce outlining plan for appointing Trustees to ISOC Board.
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Done
	
		
		Next steps: decide how we’re going to handle things this year, and how/whether NomCom is implicated.
* Ran Atkinson:  

Network Management workshop plan
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Ongoing
* Ran Atkinson, John Klensin:  

Draft issues document re. IDN and the Traditional/Simplified Chinese matching problem, generalized
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Update next week.


### IAB DRAFTS IN PROGRESS


* Ran Atkinson, Steve Bellovin:  

Security considerations, including common security attacks.
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-sec-cons-04.txt>
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		 New version published. Steve believes this is done; need a nod from Ran and IAB review.  
		
		New stuckee: Eric Rescorla.
* Steve Bellovin:  

Applicability statement for security building blocks.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		 Steve sent a revised version to Jeff Schiller a few weeks ago;  
		
		Steve will ping him for response. New stuckee? Punted to Monday IAB/IESG breakfast. Do we want to do this, how shall we proceed.
* Henning Schulzrinne, Jim Kempf:  

Telephony Services PSTN interworking draft as an IAB document.
	
	 [pre-May01]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Henning will keep working. Jim Kempf to be new IAB stuckee.
* Leslie Daigle:  

IETF PSO-PC Process
	<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-pso-appointments-00.txt>
	
	 [May01]  
	
	Ongoing
* Leslie Daigle:  

IAB Considerations for UNilateral Self-Address Fixing (UNSAF)
	[http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unsaf-considerations-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-unsaf-considerations-01.txt )
	
	 [Jan02]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		IESG approves, but asks whether we are looking for broader community review. Answer: yes. See IESG liaison update.
* John Klensin:  

ENUM Backgrounder
	[http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-itu-enum-notes-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-itu-enum-notes-00.txt )
	
	 [Feb02]  
	
	Ongoing
	
		
		Submitted to RFC Editor for publication.
* Rob Austein:  

 Recent Changes in the Architecture of the Internet
	[http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt.](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-arch-changes-00.txt.    )
	
	 [Mar02]


### FUTURE MEETINGS



Regular teleconference second Tuesday of the month 1500-1700 US East Coast time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Leslie Daigle; comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org. An online copy of these and other minutes are available at [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins](index.html). 


 Also, visit the IAB Web page at [http://www.iab.org](../index.html).
 




---


