
Minutes 
 IAB Meeting — Teleconference
--------------------------------------


**10 December 2002, 3:00pm – 5:00pm EST**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Sally Floyd  

 Ted Hardie  

 Geoff Huston  

 Charlie Kaufman  

 Jim Kempf  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG   

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Eric Rescorla
 Lynn St.Amour — Liaison from ISOC



### APOLOGIES



 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Mike St. Johns


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, 14 January, 2003.




---


### AGENDA


0. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and](#0 "Notes 0") [Previous Minutes](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-11-17/ "Minutes")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [Liaison Reports and Organization Updates](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [MoU request – Paul Vixie](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Request to move 6Bone addresses into ip6.arpa](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [RIR Liaison](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [ICANN TLG and Board Liaison](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Any Other Business](#8 "Notes 8")
	* [Proposal for IAB consideration of Notification Mechanisms](#8.1 "Notes 8.1")
	* [Review of WG Charters](#8.2 "Notes 8.2")
	* [Problem Statement Discussion](#8.3 "Notes 8.3")




---


### NOTES


#### 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


 Minutes of previous meeting ([17 November 2002](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-11-17/)), as amended, were confirmed.
 
####  1. Review of Action Items


 ([below](#actions))
 
#### 2. Review of Documents


 ([below](#documents))
 
#### 3. Liaison Reports

**IESG**  

 It was reported that the IESG is considering the future of the sub-ip interim area. The IESG has also been working on various measures directed towards further openness of IESG activities.
 



 The IAB noted that there is an IESG proposed draft statement on IDN that may be of interest to the IAB. The IAB discussed mechanisms of referral of documents to the IAB and the tracking of IAB member comments on documents. The IAB expressed an interest in using the document tracker system and in the planned functionality concerning balloting and comments to support the IAB’s activities.
 


**RFC Editor**  

 No report


**IRTF**  

 No items to report


**ISOC**  

 It was reported that ISOC will be publishing a statement on the topic of the recently rescinded Panama actions concerning the legislation regarding blocking of UDP ports used by VOIP applications. The ISOC Public Policy Committee is drafting this statement.



 Notes of ISOC support regarding cybersecurity initiatives are to be passed to US and European agencies, noting the importance of this area of activity and ISOC’s willingness to participate in this effort.



 It was noted that ISOC was requested to provide a liaison to the IETF Nominating Committee, but that the request was made at a stage that was too late to be helpful to the Nominating Committee’s efforts. It is anticipated that an ISOC liaison would be requested in future years.



 The PIR registry contract has been signed with ICANN earlier in December. The PIR will be the registrar of record as of 1 January 2003.


**ITU-T**  

 No items to report


**W3C**  

 No items to report


**PSO-PC and ICANN**


 It was reported that ICANN had recently published a note indicated that prompt action was required for the Technical Liaison Group to propose a member for the ICANN Nominations Committee. The IAB determined that it would await the outcomes of the forthcoming ICANN Board meeting item concerning the adoption of the Evolution and Reform Transition instruments. It was anticipated that the IAB would then forward a note to ICANN and the other PSO MoU signatories indicating that the IAB was withdrawing from this MoU and nominating IAB liaisons to the Technical Liaison Group.


**RSSAC**  

 It was reported that the RSSAC has been considering the CRADA report. 


**IETF Nominations Committee**


 It was reported that the Nomcom is awaiting the resolution of the consideration of the sub-ip area to determine if there is a requirement for nominations for Area Directors for this Area.


#### 4. MoU request – Paul Vixie


 The IAB considered a request from Paul Vixie (operator of the F root server) to sign an MoU concerning the operation of the root servers. The IAB noted that no other root server operators have asked the IAB to be involved, and that this does not appear to be a request on behalf of the root servers in general, and at least some of the other root server operators have signed MOUs with ICANN. The IAB decided that it would not interpose itself in this activity, through signing such a document, on behalf of a single root server operator. It was also determined that the IAB would be willing to revisit this matter if the root server operators came to the IAB as a group.


#### 5. Request to move 6Bone addresses into ip6.arpa


 The IAB agreed to the request from the RIRs to allow the 6Bone addresses as a permitted exception to the provisions of RFC 3152.
 


#### 6. RIR Liaison


 The IAB discussed a proposal to offer a liaison to the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs), noting that there was a need for better contact with the RIRs. The IAB was in favour of a liaison group that included a group of nominated individuals from the IETF and the RIRs using a mail forum and ad hoc meetings as required. It was noted that this would be an improvement on the current situation and further experience with this structure may suggest further measures in the future.



 The IAB discussed the proposed ARIN 2002-2 policy concerning allocation of number resources to support certain experiments to be conducted on the public Internet. The IAB noted that some form of technical coordination was desireable and that this could involve the proposed RIR liaison. Discussion is hosted on the ARIN public policy forum.


#### 7. ICANN TLG and Board Liaison


 The IAB decided to nominate Geoff Huston and Mike St Johns as the initial nominations to the proposed ICANN Technical Liaison Group (TLG).



 The IAB observed that there is some residual diversity of perspective on the responsibility for management of protocol parameter registration that may require some clarification by the IAB.



 The IAB noted that the nomination of a liaison to the Board of ICANN will be required shortly, and that this matter should be concluded at the next IAB meeting.


#### 8. Any Other Business

#### 8.1 Proposal for IAB consideration of Notification Mechanisms



 The IAB considered a request from Ned Freed concerning IAB architectural consideration of Notification Mechanisms. The IAB considered that this should be undertaken as a focussed activity involving a number of interested individuals with expertise in this area.
 


#### 8.2 Review of WG Charters



 The IAB approved a proposal to include prospective WG chairs in the joint IAB and IESG discussion of the charter of proposed Working Groups.
 


#### 8.3 Problem Statement Discussion



 Harald Alvestrand reported on the current status of the problem-statement forum. There is a current call for chair for a working group to continue this activity within a WG structure.
 





---


### Actions and Documents


### Actions+ **ICANN Evolution and Reform Followup**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*pending*   
	
	Status: Await ICANN adoption of new Bylaws
	
		* Appoint liaisons
+ **IAB Research Agenda**
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet. This includes documenting important topics for research
	
		* Discussion underway on topic
		* Current state of affairs on isoc-coordinated funding has been circulated
+ **IAB IPV6 Deployment Security Workshop**
	Eric Rescorla, Rob Austein, James Kempf  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Workshop problem statement that includes emphasis on security consideration of various transition solutions (secure 6-to-4 relay, etc). Proposal drafted, Venue proposed in Japan, early 2003
	
		* Rob Austein – prepare a workshop brief
		* James – hosting logistics
		* Ran – coordinate invitations with WG chairs
		* James, Geoff – followup on sponsorship possibilities
		* Form Subcommittee: Geoff, James, Rob, WG Chairs
+ **IAB RFC Publication Process**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Draft circulated (2002-11-15-IAB-RFC-Process-draft.txt)
	
		* IAB Reading List
+ **Externally submitted drafts**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Note to the IESG the IAB reservations in the use of draft-org- as a means of document submission into the IETF process for external bodies
+ **IAB Use of Document Tracker System**
	Leslie Daigle, Erik Rescorla  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Leslie- Note to IETF Chair expressing IAB interest in the IESG Document Tracker system and its further development
	
		* Eric – draft a note as to IAB requirements
+ **PSO MoU**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: draft a note to Stuart Lynn, cc PSO-PC, indicating the IAB notice to withdraw from the PSO M0U
+ **Root Server MoU Request**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Respond to Paul Vixie, reporting on IAB consideration
+ **6Bone Addresses in ip6.arpa**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: respond to the RIR request with IAB approval
+ **RIR Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: draft a liaison proposal for IAB consideration
+ **ARIN Policy 2002-2**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Post individual proposal to ARIN public policy forum
+ **ICANN TLG**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: send TLG nominations to ICANN following ICANN adoption of TLG
+ **ICANN Board Liaison**
	All  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Nominations of liaison to IAB Chair
+ **Notification Mechanisms**
	Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, James Kempf  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Leslie – to resapond to Ned Freed
	
		* Ted, James – to form activity group to investigate architectural issues relating to notification mechanisms
+ **WG Charter Review**
	Harald Alvestrand  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status: Report IAB approval to IESG

### Closed Actions

+ **iab.org**
	Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Apr-02]  
	
	*closed*   
	
	Status: closed 25/11/02
	
		* iab.org redelegated and web server re-homed
+ **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**
	Ted Hardie, Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*closed*   
	
	Status: closed 3/12/2002
	
		* Communicate concerns with IRI draft to W3C-IETF joint list (Ted to prepare, Ned to review, Leslie to pass to joint list)
+ **ITU-T ENUM Draft Press Release**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*closed*   
	
	Status: closed 3/12/2002
	
		* Respond with desire to remove reference to IETF and Patrik as WG chair
+ **IAB comment on ISOC statement regartding Panama and VOIP blocking**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*closed*   
	
	Status: closed 3/12/2002
	
		* Overtaken by further events
+ **RSSAC Liaison Status**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*closed*   
	
	Status: closed 3/12/2002
	
		* Confirm status of IAB nominated liaison on the RSSAC mail lists


### Documents


+ **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-01.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) Comments from IESG members being incorporated
		2. (next) Resubmission to IESG for protocol action and entry to RFC Editor Queue
+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt)
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) Charlie to incorporate IAB comment
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
+ **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) Incorporate comments
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
+ **Referential Integrity**
	Fred Baker, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) draft a document that describes the issues associated with referential integrity
+ **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

 draft-kempf-e2e-futures-00-1.txt
	James Kempf, Rob Austein  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IAB Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Reading
		2. (next) publish as draft-iab-\*-00, mid-December
+ **Network Management Report**  

[draft-iab-nm-workshop-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nm-workshop-01.txt)
	Ran Atkinson, Juergen Shoenwalder  
	
	 [Oct-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review Comments Incorporated
	
		1. (current) Ran to check document status
		2. (next) Publication as Informational RFC early 03
+ **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**
	Ted Hardie, Patrik Faltstrom, Ran Atkinson  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Document the issues relating to the proposed use of IRIs as protocol elements – checking with IRI authors
+ **Service Identification in packets**  

[draft-iab-service-id-considerations](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-id-considerations-00.txt)
	Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IAB Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Reading
		2. (next) publish as draft-iab-\*-00, mid-December
+ **Transport Controls for VOIP**
	Geoff Huston, James Kempf  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Document the use of transport control and congestion detection and avoicance for VOIP applications
+ **IANA Definition**  

 draft-iab-iana-00.txt
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IAB Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Reading
		2. (next) publish as draft-iab-\*-00, mid-December
		3. (next) drafted and passed to the IAB
		4. (next) wed cob timeout
+ **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: publish draft
	
		1. (current) Include section to address the question of the difference between this process and the Nomcom process.




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/) 


 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


