
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**9 December 2003**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### APOLOGIES


Patrik Fältström
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 13 January 2004


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Workshop Proposals](#5 "Notes 5")
	* IEEE/IETF meeting – IAB workshop or no?
	* SPAM workshop Proposal
6. [ICANN Board of Trustees Liaison](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [ISOC Board of Trustees appointment for 2004](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [IAB Review of Confirmation Process for new IESG candidates](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Other Regular Business](#9 "Notes 9")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [4 November Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-11-04/) were approved.


Minutes of the [IAB Meetings at IETF 58](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-11-09/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* Appeal on closing of GROW WG was upheld and Bert Wijnen will discuss with GROW WG (chairs) if and how to continue.
	* Bert is taking over Randy Bush’s WGs as primary AD till new AD is appointed. The situation seems manageable for the short term till we hope to get a new AD.
**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* The RFC Editor held its traditional lunch meeting with Leslie, Harald and Lynn at the Minneapolis IETF.
	* RFC Editor contract extension for calendar 2004 has been agreed to. The contract is currently being executed.
	* REF state review on wgchairs list.
**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* The Name Space Research Group has been closed.
	* John Levine has replaced Paul Judge as co-chair of the Anti- Spam Research Group.
	* The ASRG chairs have drafted a new proposed charter now under consideration.
	* The new MOBOPTS (IP Mobility Optimizations) RG just needs its mailing list set up, for which I’ve put in a request.
	* There has been discussion over the evolution of HIP within both the IETF and the IRTF, with the latter tying to more general research on splitting identifiers from locators, but the exact form of the efforts has not yet been determined.
	* Jabber chat rooms have been set up for each RG at jabber.org.

> 
> 
> > 
> > The IAB considered the rechartering to the ASRG, and considered the various options in terms of spinning up associated IETF WG efforts in this area. The general view was that where the ASRG had identified specific mechanisms that could be of relevance or utility, that such mechanisms be passed to the IETF for consideration as a WG effort. The IAB also considered the work item of a technology overview of this domain. It was considered that this would remain within the ASRG charter at present.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 


**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* Report on the situation with respect to the WSIS meeting in Geneva Dec 5 – 12. The topic relating to governance and the Internet appears (at this point in time) to be heading to a new working group. A number of articles published by ISOC on WSIS topics have been collected at <http://www.isoc.org/news>.
**IAB Advisory Committee**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* The Advisory Committee Report has been published as an Internet draft document ([draft-iab-advcomm-00.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-advcomm-00.txt). Followup activities to this report will be reported under the topic of administrative restructuring. Proposals relating to this activity are being prepared by Leslie and Harald.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* Possible arrangements relating to coordination of activity with ITU-T Study Groups are currently being considered by Study Group chairs.
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* John Klensin has suggested that the IAB review the ICANN document: ” Staff Manager’s Issue Report on the Need for a Predictable Procedure for Changes in the Operation of TLD Registries”. ([http://www.icann.org/gnso/issue-reports/registry-svcs-report-19nov03.htm](https://www.icann.org/gnso/issue-reports/registry-svcs-report-19nov03.htm))
	
	
	There is a concern that the procedures described in this proposal may not allow for technical input into whether a particular proposed change is problematic from a protocol or operational side-effect until very late in the process if at all. John Klensin is monitoring the progress of this proposal. The IAB may wish to provide specific input to this via the liaison.
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* In recent weeks the committee has been considering possible recommendations to ICANN about the interactions between glue records, DNS message truncation, and under what circumstances the DNS specifications leave the choice of the precise response up to the server implementation. The topic has been initially considered in the context of adding IPv6 addresses for servers into the responses (AAAA Resource Records), and has exposed a more general issue of interpretation of the DNS specifications as described above. No conclusions regarding recommendations have been formed to date.
5. #### Workshop proposals



> 
> #### 5.1 IEEE/IETF meeting – IAB workshop or no?
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > While the proposed meeting is considered to be timely and useful, the IAB determined that the meeting to be held in January at the IEEE venue would not be conducted as an IAB Workshop. The meeting will be conducted as an informal activity, and will involve the IETF through the relevant Area Directors and Working Group chairs.
> > 
> > 
> > A meeting report will be passed to the IAB.
> > 
> > 
> > It was noted that recent activity has exposed a number of issues regarding the decision as to the most appropriate venue to undertake standardization activities. The specific topics where this has arisen to date include aspects of distributed wireless Access Point control protocols and aspects of 3GPP activity relating to network device discovery.
> > 
> > 
> > In the context of this matter, the IAB considered the broader topic of liaison with IEEE 802 activities. It was noted that individual 802 groups have a higher level of autonomy in terms of meeting arrangements than IETF WGs and to designate a single IETF liaison to IEEE 802 would provide logistically challenging in terms of meeting attendance. The IAB expressed interest in the concept of a liaison coordination role, where individual liaisons between the IETF and 802 groups may be designated for specific purposes through this coordination role. This form of liaison will be referred to the IESG and IEEE for comment.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 5.2 SPAM workshop Proposal
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > It was noted that NIST have a workshop scheduled for 17 Feb 2004 on this topic (<http://csrc.nist.gov/spam/>). It was considered not appropriate to proceed with an IAB workshop proposal, and to review the situation following the NIST workshop. Vern Paxson will contact the workshop convenor to discuss the form of contribution the ASRG could make to the NIST workshop.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
>
6. #### ICANN Board of Trustees liaison



> 
> The original term of the liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors has expired with the ICANN 2003 AGM.
> 
> 
> The IAB expressed its appreciation of John Klensin’s efforts in this role through 2003.
> 
> 
> The IAB determined to re-appoint John Klensin as liaison to the ICANN Board of DIrectors for a further term.
> 
> 
>
7. #### ISOC Board of Trustees appointment for 2004



> 
> The IAB reviewed the process for the selection of an IETF appointed member of the ISOC Board of Trustees. It was noted that the process to be followed is documented in draft-iab-isocbot.
> 
> 
> The timetable for 2004 was considered, noting that a first call would need to be made early in January 2004.
> 
> 
> The IAB noted that the 2004 process would allow candidates to be considered by both the IETF process and the ISOC Nominations Committee, but that short lists of potential candidates would be reviewed to ensure that no candidate was nominated by both processes.
> 
> 
>
8. #### IAB Review of Confirmation Process for new IESG candidates



> 
> The IAB reviewed the process for the confirmation of Nominated candidates for IESG slots.
> 
> 
> The process used will be that as documented in the Minutes of the IAB Meeting, June 10, 2003 (Section 8.2), with the amendment that the IAB will undertake its best endeavour to make a decision according to the process within the stipulated time period allowed for confirmation, and not allow the decision process to lapse. If there are extenuating circumstances that do not permit the IAB to make a decision within the necessary timeframe, then these circumstances shall be handled as appropriate.
> 
> 
>
9. #### Other Regular Business



> 
> No other items of regular business
> 
> 
>




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IANA instruction for 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs

	+ Advised RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein are to be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design. Initial RIR design draft has been passed to Patrik and Rob for comment.
	+ IAB ExecD has been advised that the RIRs have formed the Number Resource Organization (NRO), and the NRO is expected to encompass common RIR functions such as proposed here. The RIRs have been requested to advise the IAB if the NRO is to be the intended delegation point. Awaiting RIR response to this query
* **IAB Mailer**
Rob Austein, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume

	+ Define a mail environment that includes spam scanning and challenge response
	+ With IESG nominee (Bill Fenner) work with Secretariat to install anti-spam measures
* **IAB Web Mail**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Implement a web-based mail-deposit archive for IAB members

	+ Evaluating alternatives
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Response sent to OMA (3/11/03)

	+ Followup note sent (Dec 9)
* **Issues Tracker**
Geoff Huston  

[Oct-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Architectural Issues in WGs – create status page for IAB use – done

	+ Deploy an IAB member submission process / issues tracker
* **IPv6 Address Architecture**
James Kempf, Itojun, Mike St Johns  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: review IPv6 address architecture (draft-ietf-ipv6-addr-arch-v4-00.txt)

	+ Review draft to ensure that the draft is consistent with IAB appeal comments
* **Liaison to Global Grid Forum**
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Advised GGF’s Charlie Catlett of Brian Carpenter as the IETF’s liaison to the GGF

	+ Request Brian Carpenter to submit a list of items for possible IETF attention from the GGF perspective
	+ Charlie Catlett is interested in having some kind of coordination / discussion phone call sometime in the new year – based on Brian’s list
* **IETF / IEEE 802 joint workshop**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf, Russ Housley, Thomas Narten  

[Nov-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Commence organisation of a joint IETF / IEEE 802 workshop, involving chairs of IEEE 802, & IETF WGs that need to work together. POtential topics to be covered include IETF DNA / IEEE handoff ECSG, EAP WG / 802.11, CAPWAP / 802.1af/802.11 and IRTF Mobility/ IEEE Fast Handoff SG

	+ Meeting will proceed as an informal meeting
* **Review of ICANN Document : Registry changes**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review ICANN document relating to changes in registry services and procedurtes relating to technology-related input and role of tech input
* **IEEE / IETF Meeting Jan 04**
Bernard Aboba  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Circulate meeting report to IAB
* **IEEE Liaison**
Leslie Daigle, Bernhard Aboba, Bert Wijnen  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Check on acceptability of liaison coordination role with IESG and IEEE
* **NIST Spam Workshop**
Vern Paxson  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Contact NIST Anti-Spam Workshop organizers regarding possible ASRG input
* **ISOC BoT Selection Process**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Commence process Jan-04


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (5-Aug-03) – AUTH

	1. (current)
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision – ekr, mh

	1. (current) Abstract required. Review of IPR-related statements (Mark Handley)
	2. (next) Leslie to undertake an IETF Call
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: IETF Call – deadline 5/1/03

	1. (current)
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (14-Oct-03) – AUTH48

	1. (current)
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/about/description.html](/about/description.html)
Eric Rescorla  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: drafting updates

	1. (current) iab review (by 1/1/04)
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
	2. (next) Bernard will circulate draft
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-iab-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document protocol models
	2. (next) submit as IAB Draft (experimental)
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms
	2. (next) Cross-reference this document with e2e document
* **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-200378.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-200378.txt)
Mark Handley  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on DOS attack forms
	2. (next) submit as IAB draft (informational)
	3. (next) Mark to submit as iab draft
* **AdvComm Report**  

 [draft-iab-advcomm-output-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-advcomm-output-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) Publish IAB Advisory Committee Report
	2. (next) revise if changes are needed and publish as a committee report
* **Liaison Management**  

 [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) Revise with comments in conjunction with baker draft





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


