
Minutes
 IAB Meeting — Teleconference
-------------------------------------


**14 January 2003, 3:00pm – 5:00pm EST**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand –IETF/IESG Chair  

 Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Mike St. Johns  

 Charlie Kaufmann  

 Geoff Huston   

 Rob Austein  

 Ted Hardie  

 Sally Floyd  

 James Kempf  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Eric Rescorla


### REGRETS



 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Eric Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Fred Baker


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, 10 February, 2003.




---


### AGENDA



AGENDA
1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and](#0 "Notes 0") [Previous Minutes](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-12-10/ "Minutes")
2. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
3. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
4. [Liaison Reports and Organization Updates](#3 "Notes 3")
	
	 IESG  
	
	 RFC Editor  
	
	 IRTF  
	
	 ISOC  
	
	 ITU-T  
	
	 W3C  
	
	 ICANN
	
		+ should our Board liaison be (ex officio) IAB?
		+ do we make a statement re. the proposed ENUM “workshop”?
	 RSSAC  
	
	 IETF Nominations Committee  
	
	 ISO
	
	
		+ Category A/Category C liaison question
5. [Interfacing with ISOC, providing technical support to their work.](#4 "Notes 4")
	* Identifying research topics for their funding efforts
	* FCC Seeks Comments on Applying E911 to VoIP
6. [IAB Concerns about DNS: IAB response to ICANN’s request for input on VGRS com/net proposal](#5 "Notes 5")
7. [All other business for full IAB](#6 "Notes 6")
8. [Consideration of Robert Elz’ appeal against IESG decision to approve draft-ietf-ipngwg-addr-arch-v3-11.txt](#7 "Notes 7")




---


### NOTES


#### 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes

 The agenda was amended to include identifying an IAB member to sit in on the IESG conference call during Rob Austein’s vacation.


 The minutes of the [December 10, 2002 meeting](/documents/minutes/minutes-2002/iab-minutes-2002-12-10/) were approved as posted to the mailing list. 


####  1. Review of Action Items


 ([below](#actions))
 
#### 2. Review of Documents


 ([below](#documents))
 
#### 3. Liaison Reports

**IESG**


 The IAB was asked to read and comment on the draft charter for the IESG and on the draft IESG procedures document.
 


**RFC Editor**


 Joyce noted that an issue with RSVP number assignment had been raised with the IESG.


 **IRTF**


 No Report.


 **ISOC**


 Lynn reported that the Public Interest Registry launched in January. She also noted that ISOC is now at break even in its finances; a full report will be made available when ISOC closes its books for 2002.


**ITU-T**


 ITU liaison statements on geographic distribution enum.arpa have been received. IETF/ITU subgroup is working on a response.


**W3C**


 No Report.


 **ICANN**


 The IAB considered whether the BoT member appointed by the IETF should be a member of the IAB, either ex officio or by limiting the selection to those serving on the IAB. The IAB decided that this role need not be ex officio part of the IAB nor should the selection be limited to members of the IAB. Further discussion of the criteria will be made public during the call for nominations. This situation will be reviewed after one year.



 The IAB also noted that ICANN is proposing an ENUM workshop. Some concerns were expressed with the interaction of this process with those already in place in the IETF and in the process documents agreed to be the IAB and ITU. Leslie will draft a statement expressing the sense of the meeting for the review of the IAB and eventual transmission to ICANN.



**RSSAC**


 RSSAC has scheduled a meeting for the Sunday prior to the next IETF. In order to ensure that the IAB liaison can attend, the IAB will schedule its meeting for Tuesday evening.


**IETF Nominations Committee**


 The NomCom chair currently plans to release all request for approval together, at or near the end of January.


**ISO**


 The IAB reaffirmed that it would accept the category A liaison originally proposed by ISO and that a category C liaison would not match the IAB’s sense of the needs of the ISO/IETF relationship.


#### 4.Interfacing with ISOC

1. Research topics and funding efforts by ISOC.
 This agenda item was discussed during the IAB Action agenda topic; see below.
2. Comments by ISOC on the FCC request for input on the application of E911 to VoIP.

 The FCC has asked for \_ex parte\_ comments on the application. The IAB agreed that any statement should come from ISOC, not the IAB, but that IAB members might provide technical input if the area fell within their technical expertise. Lynn will provide information on when the comments are due.

#### 5.IAB Concerns about DNS: IAB response to ICANN’s request for input on the system deployed by VeriSign for .com and .net.


 The IAB considered draft text for a response to ICANN and agreed review by the IESG would be valuable before it was sent to ICANN. The IAB also agreed that a second, more general document on the the topic of IDN deployment strategies would be useful. The structure of this document depends to some extent on whether the RFCs describing IDNA are available. These are now awaiting IANA action. Harald will talk to the relevant ADs about whether this action and these documents should be fast-tracked in the RFC publication process.



####  6.Sally Floyd will attend the IESG meeting during Rob Austein’s vacation.


#### 7.Appeal


After the IETF Chair and Liaisons left the meeting, the topic of the appeal against the decision to approve draft-ietf-ipngwg-addr-arch-v3-11.txt was discussed. A decision was not reached during this discussion, and further discussion was moved to the appeal-specific mailing list. One or more additional teleconference may also be scheduled to accommodate this discussion.






---


### Actions and Documents


### Actions+ **IAB use of document tracker**
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Jan-03]  
	
	*new*   
	
	Status:Requirements posted
	
		* Eric has posted requirements for an IAB document tracker. They are not similar to the IESG’s current document tracker. In general, the IAB’s document management needs are closer to those of a working group editing function.
		* A balloting system maybe required in addition or instead, in order to facilitate the determination of consensus among the IAB members. Eric will produce a proposal for such a system.
+ **RIR Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  
	
	 [Jan 03]  
	
	*new*  
	
	 Status: pending discussion
	
		* Leslie and Harald will meet with the RIR CEOs at the next RIPE meeting. This will provide a high-level interaction among the parties, but further discussion with the RIRs on how to achieve technical coordination is needed. In particular, more insight into how policy making among RIR constituents can incorporate technical coordination is needed.
+ **IAB Network Management Workshop**
	Ran Atkinson, Juergen Shoenwalder  
	
	 [Feb-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Internet draft not yet in final state.
+ **RFC Submission review**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [May-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status:
	
		* Discussion deferred.
+ **ICANN Evolution and Reform Followup**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*closed*  
	
	 Status: PSO closed; TLG advisors named.
+ **ICANN Board Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Nominations being received.
+ **IAB Research Agenda**
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, Jon Crowcroft  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status:
	
		* The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research. The drafting group feels that an additional document focusing on operational concerns is needed to support ISOC’s effort to guide governments seeking advice on funding efforts. One or both documents needs to discuss the concerns with how funded research should inter-relate with IETF work. In particular, including funding for individual researchers to attend the IETF, but recognizing that the IETF itself is not a candidate for direct funding. The new, operational document will have Geoff, Rob, and James as responsible parties for the IAB; other area experts may be recruited as needed.
+ **IAB IPV6 Deployment Workshop**
	James Kempf reporting  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status:
	
		* A venue has been secured and date set
		* A web page describing the workshop in English and Japanese is under development
		* Full agenda not yet done; tied to available participants. This list is still evolving. James will produce a draft agenda based on input from Rob, Ran and others.
+ **SC22 Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Oct-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status:
	
		* Draft a a response to SC22 noting that the IAB has already agreed to the original offer of a category A liaison to SC22.


### Documents


+ **IAB Considerations**  

[draft-iab-considerations-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-considerations-03.txt)
	Sally Floyd  
	
	 [Dec-01]  
	
	*closed*  
	
	 Status: Published as RFC 3426
+ **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-02.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) New draft issued in January
		2. (next) Send to IESG for publication
		* This version addresses concerns raised by Ned Freed
+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt)
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: IAB Review
	
		1. (current) Charlie has incorporated all received comments
		2. (next) A -02 version will be reviewed by IAB, then sent for IETF Call for Input by Leslie
+ **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Editing
	
		1. (current)  Incorporate comments
+ **Referential Integrity**
	Fred Baker, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) draft a document that describes the issues associated with referential integrity
+ **Notifications**
	Ted Hardie, James Kempf  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) draft a document that describes the issues associated with notifications
+ **IRIs**
	Ted Hardie  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) continuing discussion with Martin Duerst
+ **Service Identifiers**
	Mike St. Johns, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Incorporating comments
	
		1. (current)  Comments received on initial draft. Some indicate that the current draft has eliminated too much of the context that motivated it. Some context will be restored in the next draft. Mike will provide the next draft, with Geoff’s input.
+ **IETF IANA**  

[draft-iab-iana-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-01.txt)
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: incorporating comments
	
		1. (current) comments received from IANA and ICANN indicate some confusion about why the MoU is not called out. This document describes the function of which the MoU is an instantiation; it thus cannot make a normative reference to the MoU. A future draft will make explicit the relationship between this document and the MoU.
+ **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**
	James Kempf, Rob Austein  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	 Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) James has published a draft and sent copies to Brian Carpenter, John Wroclawski, and the IESG. An IAB internal last call will be needed after feedback incorporated.




---


These minutes were prepared byTed Hardie; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/) 


 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


