
Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG
### APOLOGIES


Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 15 July 2003.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Review of recent questions to the IAB](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IAB plans for Vienna IETF meeting](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Other Business](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Nomcom Confirmation Discussion](#8 "Notes 8")




---


### NOTES



#### 0. Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [13 May Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-06-10/ "Minutes") were considered. An amendment was proposed and the amended minutes will be circulated to the IAB for adoption.



#### 1. Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))


Regarding the drafting work on IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6, the IAB considered this in further detail. It was noted that there is a concept of ‘liveness’ in connecting a server to a network and have it be discovered by potential clients in a timely manner. There is no single clear solution here, and while anycast and multicast represent feasible mechanisms, both approaches have drawbacks, particularly in larger environments. There is also a need for some associated directory structure, and while the DNS or SLPv2 can be used in such a mode, again there are issues here. The DNS approach is one taken from the DNS SD rendezvous efforts, and it is considered reasonable to write down the issues that were exposed in considering this approach. A related issue is the level of IP configuration support that is provided from the link layer, where reliance on link level responses seriously impairs roaming and impairs interoperability. There are also issues that have been noted with DHCP level discovery and there are concerns about the security associated with this form of approach. These areas will be considered at length in the proposed IAB considerations document.



#### 2. Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))



#### 3. IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:


* The IETF Secretariat is attempting to streamline various routine interactions, for example, the Do-Not-Publish and No-Problem responses from IESG to the RFC Editor in response to queries from the RFC Editor about individual submissions.
* The General Area now has a directorate.
* Question of whether to ban an individual from posting to the IPR WG list: this is understood to be the first time that the RFC 2418 3.2 procedure for blocking WG mailing list postings from an individual has ever been invoked (in particular, the part that requires explicit approval of the whole IESG prior to taking such an action).


**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*


* Leslie Daigle and Harald Alvestrand visited the RFC Editor office on Friday, June 27th. A productive all day meeting was held with the RFC Editor staff.


**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*


* A Peer-to-Peer RG has been chartered.
* The Reliable Multicast RG has closed.
* There will be an informal BOF in Vienna regarding possibly forming an RG on the topic of IP Mobility.


**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*


* The next ISOC Board meeting will be held on the 12th and 13th July, 2003 in Vienna, Austria Austria Center Vienna. ISOC Board meetings are open to the Public. All are welcome.
* ITU’s Internet Policy Manual. The ITU-T has released a call for support for an  [Internet Policy Manual](http://www.itu.int/md/meetingdoc.asp?type=sitems&lang=e&parent=T01-TSB-CIR-0168) that the ITU intends to draft. The ISOC Board is very concerned about this and will be preparing a response/plan of action at its upcoming Board meeting.
* WSIS. ISOC submitted statement of concern re WSIS to WSIS and ITU (abstract below), two main concerns: WSIS remains too broad and un- focused to be really helpful and we are concerned by statements in the draft documents that imply the need for new, intergovernmental organizations to “manage” the Internet. The ISOC Board continues to discuss ways to influence WSIS and we are encouraging all our chapters to work this actively with their local governments. Full text at <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/wsis/comments.shtml>.



Statement of Concern


With just over six months left before the Summit, the Internet Society is concerned that there is not yet a well-defined list of specific actions and initiatives that might be endorsed at the Summit. The draft Plan of Action and Declaration of Principles sets out many worthy goals, but does not make clear how those goals can and will be achieved. In addition, the draft documents attempt to address almost every aspect of the Information Society as well and many issues are not directly related to information technology or telecommunications. We would hope that the Summit would endorse a much shorter document that instead focuses on a few specific areas and have the assembled governments commit to specific actions that they will take to foster the continued growth of the Internet and the Information Society. In particular, we would recommend attention be focused on how governments can foster competition in the IT and telecommunications marketplace, how they can promote the use of open standards and open source software, how they can ensure free expression in cyberspace, and how they can foster public sector applications of the Internet, such as e-government, online education, and e-health.


“Managing the Internet”:  

We are very concerned by statements in the draft documents that imply the need for new, intergovernmental organizations to “manage” the Internet. In particular, proposals to replace ICANN and create a new mechanism for managing root servers, domain names and IP addresses is unnecessary, will lead to significant disruption, and is unlikely to succeed. The unprecedented growth and innovation that we have seen in the Internet sector is due in large part to the lack of regulation and constraints on technology development. In addition, the processes employed have been open, democratic and inclusive and it’s hard to see how these could be improved by a new intergovernmental body. In 1985, no one could have predicted or planned the explosive growth of the Internet and the World Wide Web. Today, as the Grid, Web services, and new wireless Internet technologies promise to again transform the way we gather, process, and share information, we should continue to support the decentralized, bottom-up innovation that has made the Internet the powerful tool it is today. Non-governmental organizations such as the Internet Engineering Task Force, ICANN, and the World Wide Web Consortium, have proven very flexible and nimble and have enabled the global Internet community to quickly find consensus on how best to adopt and use new Internet technologies. Individual governments can and should support such organizations and ensure the full participation of their citizens in their activities.



#### 4. Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*


The IAB’s attention was called to the  

[draft on the ‘how to process a liaison statement](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-liaisons-00.txt).
**ICANN Board Liaison**  

*John Klensin*


A number of issues relating to ICANN were conveyed to the IAB, including the intent to fill positions of a General Manager for IANA and a Technical Operations Manager. The WSIS and ITU-T activities appear to be taking a broad view of matters that appear to lie within ICANN’s charter Some technical concerns remain with IDN issues, and some developments with IDN deployments and various permutations of root service interaction were noted.

#### 5. Review of recent questions to the IAB



**SNMP protocol action**


David Waitzman has requested the IAB’s view on a proposal that advocates moving all SNMP documents and MIB documents to HISTORIC, NOT RECOMMENDED status as of June 2006.


It was noted in the IAB discussion of this proposal that SNMP V1 and SNMP V2c documents are already HISTORIC status, and that current IETF efforts in the network management area are concentrated on configuration-related issues. It was also noted that there is no clear candidate technology that could replace SNMP V3 at present that has been introduced into the IETF for consideration with respect to standardization, this was not a clear outcome of the 2002 IAB workshop on Network Management, and that such a protocol action regarding SNMP and MIBs would have to be based on a consensus view of the IETF, consistent with the definition of “historic” as contained in RFC2026.. These views will be conveyed in response.


**ENUM Instructions to RIPE NCC**


The RIPE NCC has informed the IAB that the wording in the ENUM  

[request template](http://www.ripe.net/enum/request-template.html) describing the three different role contacts ( sections 2.2. to 2.4.) could be confusing or even misleading. The RIPC NCC has proposed a clearer wording for these roles. Patrik Fältström will review the proposal and recommend an IAB response.


**DNS URI question**


The IAB discussed the DNS URI proposal in response to a query from Paul Vixie on the IAB’s input regarding the use of a hostpart in the DNS URI specification. The issues identified include consideration of the transitive properties of DNS queries, and whether the outcomes of a resolution of a URI should be dependant on explicit reference to a particular query point. It was decided to consider this further at the next IAB meeting before drafting any response to the query.


**IPv6.ARPA delegation Instructions regarding 2002::/16**


In accordance with the IANA Considerations of RFC 3152, the IAB approved the request to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the Regional Internet Registries. An IAB instruction to this effect will be sent to the IANA.



#### 6. IAB plans for Vienna IETF meeting



The IAB reviewed the schedule for IETF-57. The IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board will be invited to the IAB meeting with the ICANN CEO. The IAB will undertake a technical review of the IMPP documents at its technical meeting on Tuesday if time and resources permit.



#### 7. Other Business



7.1 **Affiliation Listings for IAB members**


The IAB decided to support an expanded member listing page that details each IAB member’s affiliation, and also allow a brief CV and a pointer to a personal web page. The Executive Director was tasked to implement this addition to the IAB web pages.


7.2 **Followup: Liaison appointments to Non-International Bodies**


No further considerations were raised by the IESG in respect to this proposal. The IAB will publish this as an adopted procedure on the IAB web page.



#### 8. Nomcom Confirmation Discussion



The IAB met in closed session, without the IETF Chair, to consider the NomCom nomination for the IESG Internet Area mid-term vacancy.


The IAB decided to publish a statement regarding information requested from the Nomcom in making a nomination. The IAB position is that in making its confirming decision the IAB desires the submission of material from the Nomcom that includes the Nomcom’s view of the qualifications required for the vacant position, and the Nomcom’s summary of the candidate’s qualifications that the Nomcom found has relevant to support their nomination.






---


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS



### Actions


* **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC

	+ A registry selection criteria and conditions document is to be drafted (gih)
* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Fältström, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ Document on Internet Identity realms being drafted. A second document to answer the specific issues about IDN may be needed.
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Prepare classification matrix to identify particular issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations

	+ Questionnaire to be posted to wg chairs list
* **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
Mark Handley  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players.

	+ Initial draft prepared for IAB review
* **Address Architecture**
Leslie Daigle  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Circulate Harald’s formulation of the constrained address architecture issue to the IAB

	+ This is the proposal for an open IAB meeting / possible BOF at the next IETF mtg.
	+ Close this following the Open Meeting, and open up followup actions
* **WG Status**
Leslie Daigle, All  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.

	+ Leslie to provide some guidelines for this activity
* **IAB Open Meeting**
Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Schedule IAB Open Meeting on IETF Agenda

	+ Geoff: prepare introduction
* **Response to SNMP query**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft response to query regarding IAB position on proposal to assign all SNMP and MIB documents to Historic
* **Response to ENUM query**
Patrik Fältström  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft response to RIPE NCC proposal to alter the definition of role contacts in the ENUM registry
* **IANA instruction for IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs
* **IAB Member details web page**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add an expanded members web page with affiliations, etc, to the IAB web site.
* **Liaisons Procedure**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Post the adopted procedure on the IAB web page


### Closed Actions


* **Notification Mechanisms**
Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, James Kempf  

[Dec-02]  

*closed*  

Status: James Kempf to draft a note on the topic of architectural issues relating to notification mechanisms. Circulate the note to Lisa Dusseault, Ted Hardie, Leslie Daigle and Ned Freed. Need to look at Lemonade WG work again as Lemonade was the prime motivator here.

	+ Note to be filed with IAB Documents
* **RFC Editor Charter**
Leslie Daigle  

[May-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Circulate draft RFC editor Charter to IAB
* **ARIN Teredo Allocation Request**
Leslie Daigle  

[May-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Draft a note indicating hat the IAB would be opposed to the RIR allocation for Teredo, and pass it to the IESG for review before responding to the RIRs
* **IAB liaison procedure**
Leslie Daigle  

[May-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Pass a copy of the procedure to the IESG for information


### Documents


* **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-01]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor (submitted 13-Feb)

	1. (current) AUTH
* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-02.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: Revising

	1. (current) incorporate comment into final draft (03)
	2. (next) Submikt 03 to RFC Editor
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) 01 draft being prepared, with expansion of current [TODO] sections of the -00 draft
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) final review prior to IETF Call
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to review the draft
* **Service Identification in packets**  

 [draft-iab-service-considerations-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-01.txt)
Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*IETF Comment*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) 02 draft being prepared with call for input comments included
	2. (next) submit 02 to RFC Editor
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-00.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) review and discussion
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-02.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) revised per IAB comments
	2. (next) Review document progress in August
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*IAB review*  

Status: IAB review

	1. (current) IETF Call for Input
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research.
	2. (next) The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research.
	3. (next) Sally – feedback appreciate – there are as yet unwritten sections and assistance will be coopted
	4. (next) Bernard – wireless research is underfunded – will send mail
	5. (next) Sally – there is a commented out section referencing Rob on DNS
	6. (next) Patrik to write section on issues around address scoping and related routing and application interactions
	7. (next) Review progress in August
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/connexions.html](/about/description/)
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested

	1. (current) ekr to consider undertaking editor role.
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operational activities
	2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


