
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**14 October 2003**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


Bernard Aboba  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 4 November 2003.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [IAB Liaison to the Nomcom](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IESG request re. draft-klensin-name-filters](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Other recent requests for input](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [IETF Meeting preparation](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Other Regular Business](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [Tony Hain appeal of IESG decision re. IPv6 Site Local Addresses](#10 "Notes 10")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [9 September Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-09-09/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* Ongoing discussion on IETF reorganisation, with some progress. There has been a posting to problem statement WG and IETF list by Harald on this topic. IESG will have a face to face meeting on this topic on 21-22 October.
	* IESG has responded to Todd Glassey and Tony Hain appeals. In both cases IESG upheld the AD decisions.
	* IESG understands that the RFC-Editor is working on responding to various comments to draft-rfc-editor-rfc2223bis-07.txt, so it is waiting for RFC-Editor action.
	* Online ballot system is now operational, and first impressions are positive. There were a few small hiccups which caused some documents to not appear on agenda, delaying those documents by 2 weeks. This should not happen again (we expect).
	* IESG discussed approval of RFC2727bis and possible fast-track of same (started when Mike StJohns raised the issue of potential over-representation). The IESG has decided not to fast-track consideration of this document.
	* IESG discussed “what to do with requests for interoperability testing at IETF meetings”. Specifically the question on what we can allow on our live network at such meetings. Bill Fenner and Randy Bush are working on writing up a proposed policy, which will then be considered.
	* IESG discussed the issue of not getting timely and high quality minutes of IETF meetings that need to go in the proceedings. As a follow up a discussion is currently going on (initiated by Harald) on the WG chairs mailing list.
**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* The RFC Editor held a teleconference with Harald, Leslie, and Lynn on Wednesday, October 8th.
	* Held up on experimenting with editing XML by pressure of documents to be published.
	
	
	Also, our solicitations to I\* and the xml2rfc mailing lists for feedback on MTR-XML-produced nroff have not been very useful. We have had low response, even though we have been told that 30% of the community is using this XML.
	
	
	Meanwhile, the processing time for the RFC Editor can be reduced by those using xml2rfc by submitting nroff output from the tool.
	
	
	
	> Joyce noted that the RFC Editor intends to post a request to authors to submit XML source, if they have one, in order to expedite the RFC Editing process. Consideration about publishing in other formats was not an active RFC Editor agenda topic at this point in time.
	> 
	>
	* The RFC queue is growing, as we’ve recently had several bursts in protocol/document actions.
	* Starting to use the ABNF compiler. We have some suggestions for improvements. Found bugs in an earlier RFC’s ABNF (SDP) as well as in new documents.
	* Looking at an XML schema validator, for checking a 6+ page dense XML schema found in an RFC in the queue.
**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* Avri Doria has taken over as chair of the Routing Research Group.
	* A new “IP Mobility Optimizations” research group is close to ready to go.
	* There is now an understanding with the I-D editor that draft- irtf-XXX submissions should have the approval of the chair of the XXX research group. I would also like to have an IRTF area in the I-D repository so it’s easy to find IRTF-related I-Ds.
	
	
	
	> It was noted that this should be raised directly with the IETF Chair and the IETF Executive Director
	> 
	>
**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* No items reported.
**IAB Advisory Committee**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* The Advisory Committee is currently working to a reporting date of the November IETF meeting.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* The IAB has been updated on the current activity associated with the World Summit for the Information Society (WSIS), including the current WSIS Action Plan.
	* Issue of joint standards with ITU-T, TSAG and IETF has arisen again, requiring further review and discussion.
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* The W3C-IETF coordination group met (by teleconference) on October 8. Notes/minutes of the meeting will be posted, as usual, to the IETF liaison statement web page (<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/liaison.html>).
	* Highlights, requiring further discussion (in the coordination group, or in other fora):
	
	
		1. Appropriate ways to reference media type registrations in a persistent fashion (the W3C has draft-connolly-w3c- accessible- registries as a proposal); IETF folks on the call expressed concern about the requirement of declaring the iana.org domain as fixed, and pointed to the IANA URN namespace (in RFC-Ed queue, draft-mealling-iana-urn-04.txt). There are concerns that dereferencing mechanisms are not in place for these. Dan Connolly et al will pursue publication of their document,
		2. URI scheme types (specifically, recent proposals for “INFO” and “DOI” URI schemes). There are some community concerns of the appropriateness of these and other impending URI schemes; this matter will be taken to the W3C URI Coordination Group (which includes IETF URI designated experts).
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No Items to Report
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* A number of queries have been preferred to the IAB through the liaison to the ICANN Board.
	* ICANN consideration of redemption grace period. Is there any technical input from IAB, and does the IAB wish to be represented on the RGP Phase II Technical Steering Group?
	
	
	
	> 
	> The IAB had no technical issues to raise on this topic and did not feel it to be appropriate to be represented on this Steering Group.
	> 
	> 
	>
	* The IAB was briefed on the current status of reassignment of country codes. The IAB noted that recent actions by ICANN were consistent with the view that the acceptance of the country code DNS Top Level Domain accepted the ccTLD list as a valid application of the code system implies that a much longer waiting/reuse period than five years is now appropriate.
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* It was reported that RSSAC is working on a set of criteria to use to chose among the root ops who wish to add AAAA RRs for their servers (working under the constraint that current theory says there’s room for two AAAA RRs without being disruptive in any way, but no more than two).
5. #### IAB Liaison to the Nomcom



The IAB nominated Geoff Huston to serve as IAB liaison to the IETF Nomcom.
6. #### IESG request re. draft-klensin-name-filters



On Oct 2 the IETF Chair forwarded a question from the IESG, relating to draft-klensin-name-filters. The IESG summarized the question as: “What issues should be considered when deciding when and how to apply validity checks for protocol processing not conducted by the application applying the validity check?” ([IESG Query](/documents/correspondence/2003-10-02-iesg-dns-validity-check-query.html))


The IAB nominated Patrik Faltstrom as the lead to respond to this query, assisted by Rob Austein.
7. #### Other recent requests for input




	* The IAB discussed a possible statement, specifically intended for the operational community, on the topic of filtering traffic as AS boundaries.
	
	
	
	> A draft of such a statement will be considered by the IAB.
	> 
	>
	* Pekka Savola has asked the IAB for documentation on “why the use of RFC1918 addressing is not necessarily the best of ideas”.
	
	
	
	> The IAB will respond noting earlier IAB activities in consideration of private addresses and NATS, and current activities in consideration of scoped address architectures.
	> 
	>
	* Donald Eastlake has proposed an IETF effort to record country code assignments as used by the top level of the DNS.
	
	
	
	> The IAB has noted that ISO have clarified their position regarding public availability and royalty-free use of these codes, and the IAB is of the view that these clarifications are consistent with the use of these codes within Internet protocol parameter assignment functions. ([IAB Correspondance](/documents/correspondence/2003-09-23-isocodes.html))
	> 
	>
8. #### IETF Meeting preparation



The IAB is planning to undertake a series on updates to the IAB’s Open Architectural Issues Resource page based on information gathered at the November IETF WG sessions.


The next IAB telechat will be scheduled on the 4th November, intended to consider business matters prior to the IETF meeting.


A joint IESG / IAB meeting is to be scheduled for the morning of Sunday, 9th November, to consider the Advisory Committee’s report.


The IETF Plenary sessions are to be scheduled with the plenary session on the 12th (Wednesday) planned as a joint IESG / IAB open meeting with status reports and an open microphone session. The session for the 13th (Thursday) is planned to be a combination of presentation on the IETF reform activities and some technical material.
9. #### Other Regular Business



Mike St Johns reported on the ICANN SECSAC committee hearing on the Verisign wildcard deployment.


It was noted that while there is continuing activity in the discovery and documentation of various consequences, there was no request for further IAB comment on this matter at this point in time.


The IAB noted a Verisign Press Release that had a heading of a response to the IAB document. The IAB determined not to engage in an exchange of press releases



[*Liaisons and IETF Chair left the meeting at this point*]
10. #### Tony Hain appeal of IESG decision re. IPv6 Site Local Addresses



The IAB commenced consideration of the Tony Hain appeal.




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Identify particlar issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations

	+ Responses collated and published on IAB web pages
* **WG Status**
Leslie Daigle, All  

[May-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.
* **IANA instruction for 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs

	+ Advise RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein should be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design.
	+ Documenting RIR proposal then instructing IANA regarding delegation
* **IAB Member details web page**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add an expanded members web page with affiliations, etc, to the IAB web site.

	+ Waiting bio from Rob
* **Address Architecture**
Mark Handley  

[Jul-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Summarize the issues raised at the Open Meeting

	+ Post draft to address architecture list
* **Address Architecture Discussion**
Eric Rescorla, Leslie Daigle  

[Jul-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Moderate a mailing list dedicated to followup on the address architecture topic

	+ Mailing list set up
* **IAB Mailer**
Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston, Eric Rescorla  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume
* **IAB Web Mail**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Implement a web-based mail-deposit archive for IAB members
* **IETF Plenary**
Leslie Daigle  

[Aug-03]  

*closed*  

Status: draft plenary agenda for Nov-03 circulated for comment
* **.int**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Clarify current administrative and delegation arrangements for .int TLD with IANA
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review proposed agreement and circulate proposed changes to IAB

	+ PING – draft today
* **Liaisons**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Liaison procedures and roles need to be defined in a document
* **IESG Query – Protocol Validity Checks**
Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  

[Oct-03]  

*current*  

Status: Respond to IESG query – requested response date is 7 November
* **Operational Note on Edge Filters**
Itojun  

[Oct-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft an IAB note to the operational community on consequences of deployment of edge filters
* **IETF Prep**
Geoff Huston  

[Oct-03]  

*current*  

Status: Architectural Issues in WGs – create status page for IAB use

	+ BOF and WG signup
	+ Deploy an IAB member submission process / issues tracker


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue – AUTH

	1. (current) author comments to be submitted
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revise

	1. (current) Revise as per IAB review (-02 version required)
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revise

	1. (current) IAB review of -4 draft
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) IETF Call for Input
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (14-Oct-03)

	1. (current)
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) IETF Call for Input
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/about/description.html](/about/description.html)
Eric Rescorla  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: drafting updates

	1. (current) iab review
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
	2. (next) Bernard will circulate draft by 12 September
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operatial activities
	2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.
	3. (next) token pass in IAB mailer
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-rescorla-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Comments from Geoff and Sally
	2. (next) IAB Draft (experimental)
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms
* **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-200378.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-200378.txt)
Mark Handley  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on DOS attack forms
	2. (next) publish as IAB draft





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


