
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**13 May 2003, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm US EST**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 10 June 2003, 4:00 EST.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Proposal: Process for relationships with non-international bodies](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IAB plans for Vienna IETF meeting](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Review of recent and planned IAB activities](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Other Business](#8 "Notes 8")




---


### [NOTES](#8 "Notes 8")



#### 0. 
Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [8 April Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-04-08/ "Minutes") were approved.



#### 1. Review of Action Items


([see below](#actions))
#### 2. Review of Documents


([see below](#documents))
#### 3. IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

The IESG liaison to the IAB is Bert Wijnen.


An experiment has commenced in the area of provision of RT (a ticketing system) support to any WG that wants it. Levels of interest in this activity are being assessed.


The IESG is also reviewing aspects of the WG decision making process in the area of means of resolving potential deadlock situations.


**IRTF**  

The IRTF chair reported receiving a number of concerns and complaints about the state of ASRG, and is looking into modifying the RG management to address them.


**RFC Editor**


1. “Do Not Publish” (DNP)


There has recently been a discussion between the IESG and RFC Editor on the issue of when to publish documents as RFCs that have been rejected by working groups. There is a concern that document authors will take rejected drafts from the working groups and submit them directly to the RFC Editor as individual submissions. A question has arisen whether these documents should be published before the working group publishes its output.


The RFC Editor has proposed to the IESG that the IESG may request that publication of an individual submission may be delayed by six months by sending RFC Editor a “Do Not Publish” (DNP) note containing a description of the risks posed by the document. (The RFC Editor would like to understand the specifics of the request.)


The author will receive a note including the IESG DNP message and an explanation that the draft may be resubmitted in six months. The RFC Editor feels that a timed delay is important since some working groups do not complete their work. When the draft is re-submitted, the IESG may request one additional six month delay if there is sufficient reason to believe the working group will deliver it’s output in that time.


This discussion is still in progress.
2. The IESG’s I-D nits document


The IESG is reviewing the I-D nits document. The IESG requested that the RFC Editor provide a review and feedback. Bert Wijnen has been sorting the nits into three categories:


	1. “clerical” nits which will result in a wg draft being rejected before AD review. E.g., missing security considerations.
	2. Nits which the AD review should flag and reject before IESG review.
	3. Nits which can be resolved somewhat painlessly by the RFC Editor (e.g., excessive line length in body text).The RFC Editor conveyed to Bert Wijnen that it is willing and able to handle all the formatting and editorial nits. The RFC Editor doe not feel that documents should be held up overly long for reasons of formatting, especially since the RFC Editor will be fixing the formatting, anyway. The RFC Editor agrees that the best thing for all involved is to ensure that the semantic nits (e.g., abstract, normative/informative references, security considerations, etc.) are best addressed early on to ensure accurate review and group consensus. The RFC Editor also agrees that it is reasonable to require splitting references between normative and informative on all IESG-reviewed Informational documents.


In all cases, WG chairs and authors will be expected to have their documents nit-free before submission. The objective of this activity is to decide when to bounce a document that fails a nit check. The desire is to set a fairly high bar with the WG chairs to improve the quality of documents hitting the IESG.
3. New RFC Series/Category and Documented Appeals Process for DNPs


The RFC Editor is currently discussing with the IESG the possibility of a new series/category for working group Informational documents such as requirements, architecture, and framework documents, and a documented appeals process for DNPs.


**ISOC**  

ISOC has been following up on Item # 8 from the IAB Meetings during the March 2003 IETF concerning the US Homeland Security Office activities


Meetings have taken place with representative of this office, as well as comparable meetings with officials within Europe.



#### 4. Updates from IETF Liaisons



**RSSAC**  

The RSSAC has been discussing “glue” RRset maintenance and policy issues (mostly about how active a role ICANN should play about making sure that the glue RRset stays in sync with the authoritative RRset in the child zone. The questions include: how much checking should be undertaken?, Should there be tracking of changes to the authoritative RRset that the child zone admin hasn’t directly reported to ICANN?



#### 5. Proposal: Process for relationships with non-international bodies


The IAB considered a proposal relating to the manner of interaction with non-international bodies. The IAB noted that while this was a functional “liaison role”, there was some consideration relating a “liaison” to a degree of perception of some level of peer status between liaising bodies, and the potential for further liaisons in a wide spectrum of various national and regional activities. Further consideration of this topic is to be scheduled for the next IAB meeting.
#### 6. IAB plans for Vienna IETF meeting



The IAB decided to invite the CEO of ICANN to meet with the IAB on Thursday of the IETF week.


The IAB considered a proposal to hold an open meeting to undertake enumeration of the class of operational scenarios for which there is perceived to be a role for scoped, or otherwise constrained address architectures. At this stage the proposed outputs from this activity are intended to be an enumeration of the issues raised in the open meeting, followed by a subsequent architectural analysis of these issues as a means of assisting the IETF to progress with the topic of various forms of constrained address architecture proposals.



#### 7. Review of recent and planned IAB activities



The mid-month IAB action item review has not been effective, and this will not be continued. The mid-month informal telechats were considered to be effective, and further calls will be scheduled using a SIP-based conferencing system.


IAB members were requested to provide periodic summaries of the current status and major issues being faced by those working groups in which they were actively tracking.



#### 8. Other Business


None



---


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS



### Actions


* **Notification Mechanisms**
Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, James Kempf  

[Dec-02]  

*current*  

Status: James Kempf to draft a note on the topic of architectural issues relating to notification mechanisms. Lisa Dusseault to assist.

	+ James to review and revise initial draft provided by Lisa
* **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC
* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ Revise as per drafted introduction and framework
* **IAB Workshops**
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Revisit workshops, and reconsider this along the lines of approach, topic, and logistics.

	+ DOS attack workshop (below).
	+ Other topics/approaches to consider?
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Generate a survey for the WG chairs to come up with a classification matrix to identify particular issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations

	+ Prepare classification matrix
* **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
Mark Handley  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players.

	+ Taxonomy document being prepared
* **Address Architecture**
Leslie Daigle  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Circulate Harald’s formulation of the constrained address architecture issue to the IAB
* **WG Status**
All  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.


#### Closed Actions


* **Response to ICANN VGRS proposal**
Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Draft response to ICANN referencing IETF role and document preparation
* **ICANN CRADA report**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Note to ICANN from the IAB (as TLG) indicating that the IAB understands that a CRADA report on the root nameservers has been prepared, and that the IAB is under the impression that there is a substantive component of the report devoted to technical aspects of this activity. The IAB is willing to undertake a technical review of this report if so desired by ICANN under the terms of the activities encompassed by the technical liaison activity with ICANN
* **IAB Conf calls using SIP**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Get in touch with the SIP gateway provider to see if IAB requirements can be met for a trial call in May
* **HSSP**
Mike St Johns  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Contact Ran to followup on briefing proposal.
* **HSSP**
Leslie Daigle  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Contact HSSP chair and nominate a member / observer to the Panel Steering Committee

	+ Ran Aktinson has been nominated as an IETF Liaison
* **Global Grid Forum Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Contact GGF chair and discuss potential liaison arrangements

	+ proposed liaison arrangements
* **V6 Address Architecture**
Patrik Faltstrom  

[Apr-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Draft a note asking the RIRs what amount of consideration has taken place with respect to the PA / PI space issues with respect to IPv6

	+ note ready to send


### Documents


* **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: RFC Editor (submitted 13-Feb – Author 48 hours)
* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-02.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: Revising

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) incorporate comment into final draft
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Complete template section
	2. (next) IETF call for input
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-02.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) send pointer to the draft to the e2e interest list
* **Report of IAB Network Management Workshop**  

[draft-iab-nm-workshop-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nm-workshop-02.txt)
Rob Austein  

[Oct-02]  

*current*  

Status: RFC Editor – submitted 16 April
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to review the draft
* **Service Identification in packets**  

 [draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt)
Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) revise as per comment received
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the use of transport control and congestion detection and avoidance for VOIP applications
	2. (next) Sally – drafting
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-01.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) IAB review of -02 draft
	2. (next) publish 02 draft
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) review and revise following completion of 2003 election process
* **IAB Research Agenda**
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research.
	2. (next) The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research.
	3. (next) Sally – feedback appreciated – there are as yet unwritten sections and assistance will be coopted
	4. (next) Bernard – wireless research is underfunded – will send mail
	5. (next) Sally – there is a commented out section referencing Rob on DNS
	6. (next) Patrik to write section on issues around address scoping and related routing and application interactions
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/connexions.html](/about/description/)
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested

	1. (current) active
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: drafting

	1. (current) circulate to IAB of a draft indicating progress to date with this document
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operational activities
	2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/)




---


