
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**9 September 2003**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 14 October 2003.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [IRTF IPR Issues](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [ANTI-SPAM Consideration](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Process for Individual Submissions to RFC Editor](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [.int Considerations](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Liaison Considerations](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [IETF Plenary Structure](#10 "Notes 10")
11. [IAB Liaison to the Nomcom](#11 "Notes 11")
12. [IAB Teleconf Call Scheduling](#12 "Notes 12")
13. [Other Business](#13 "Notes 13")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [12 August Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-08-12/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* ongoing discussion on IETF reorganisation, with careful progress
	* working on Todd Glassey and Tony Hain appeals
	* considering  [draft-rfc-editor-rfc2223bis-07.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rfc-editor-rfc2223bis-07.txt) for publication as an Informational RFC. The IAB is requested to send comments, if any, as soon as possible.
	
	
	
	*The IAB considered this document and expressed a strong preference for a BCP document that describes the policies of the RFC Editor role, while agreeing with the concept of using an Informational document to describe instructions to authors. It was observed that the current draft contains both instructions to RFC authors and descriptions of elements of RFC Editor policy.*
	* online-ballot system currently scheduled to go live with telechat of Sept 18th
	* baker-liaisons doc was discussed, no IESG outcome as yet. Suggestions were that liaison person should be responsible for the follow up and make sure proper process was followed. Not clear that current liaison people are aware of that task and/or that they would be willing to take that responsibility. Does IAB have a view on that?
	
	
	
	*The IAB considered this as part of [agenda item 9](#9)*
**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* The RFC Editor held a teleconference with Harald, Leslie and Lynn on the 5th September.
	* HTML wdiff files are being routinely provided to authors
	* Hired a new GRA (Graduate Research Assistant) for programming support, to replace the student who graduated in May, and has been employed by Microsoft.
	* We are ready to publicly announce our XML version of the rfc-index
	* JKRey is on jury duty in U.S. Federal District Court  
	
	the month of September/early October.
	* Tasks in progress
	
	
		+ Awaiting Harald’s input on RFC 2223bis, which we are anxious to publish.
		+ Experimenting with editing XML.
		+ Considering suggestion from John Klensin to add a new timeout state to processing of individual submissions.
	* *It was noted that the RFC Editor has established an “RFC Editorial Board”. The IAB was informed that this was a technical review body intended to offer advice to the RFC Editor on individual submissions to the RFC Editor, acting as an additional source of input to the RFC Editor in reviewing individual submissions. It was noted that this “RFC Editorial Board” review was intended to occur prior to IESG review. The IAB expressed their support of the concept, but indicated that advance circulation of documentation of such changes to the RFC Editor process should be part of the overall process.*
**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* Discussions with the IETF’s legal counsel have begun regarding formulating an IRTF IPR policy. A basic issue to resolve is procedurally how to draft and refine the policy.
	* ASRG has added a co-chair, Yakov Shafranovich.
	* IRTF research group chairs are now required to send brief monthly activity summaries to the IRSG. The intent is to periodically condense these and make them available via the IRTF web pages.
**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* ISOC will be appointing Brian Carpenter as a liaison to the IETF NomComm.
**IAB Advisory Committee**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* The IAB Advisory Committee has held its initial meeting, and is currently setting itself up
	* It is anticipated that the Committee will report to the IAB at the Minneapolis IETF meeting, and the IAB will then have the opportunity to review the Committee’s work and consider the topic of whether the committee should continue to operate, and if so under what form of charter.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* No items to Report
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* No Items to Report
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No Items to Report
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* Current ICANN Board activities are focused on the policies and procedures relating to the allocation of new TLDs.
	* The new Board has held one substantive teleconference, mostly concerning a request from the .NAME registry to start registering personal names at the second level, in addition to their original plan to register family names at the second level but to register/delegate only third-level names to individuals. .NAME was given permission to do that. I did raise a flag about the scaling properties of domains that tried to register every person in the world at the second level, but the Board’s conclusion seemed to be that the current domain takeup rate was at a scale such that this presented no additional scaling concerns.
	* It is noted that the March 2004 ICANN meeting conflicts with the IETF meeting.
	* The process of selecting the “IANA General Manager” is proceeding. Undertakings were provided that the IETF chair, the IAB chair and the IETF liaison to the ICANN Board would be consulted during this process, although there is no direct evidence that this has taken place as yet.
	* My appointment expires with the ICANN Annual Meeting. It is not clear yet when that meeting will be — there is an effort to tie it to the Carthage meeting the last week in October, but, given other constraints, that may or may not be successful. If it is not, there may be a further meeting something late in the year, probably mid-December. But the IAB should start thinking about its options regarding this liaison position.
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* No Items to Report
5. #### IRTF IPR Issues



The IRTF chair reported on some uncertainty as to how to proceed with an IPR policy for the IRTF. There has been a proposal to adapt the IETF IPR policy for the IRTF, but it is unclear whether there might be legal issue or further obligations given the nature of the IRTF in terms of membership and consensus, and its relationship to the IAB.


The IAB accepted a proposal from the IRTF chair to develop an IRTF IPR policy via the RFC BCP process, using as a base a revision of RFC 2014, and incorporation of relevant outcomes from the IPR WG. The draft of this document would be open to community review in the normal course of document drafting and review. In this mode, the IRSG and IAB would be consulted, but the document would also reflect a more general IETF community consensus, with corresponding visibility.
6. #### ANTI-SPAM Consideration



Sally Floyd reported on some investigation she has been undertaking on the general topic of anti-spam measures, and the view was expressed that there may be value in further IETF activities beyond the current IRTF ASRG. It was noted that the ASRG has a document that looks at technical considerations, and one of the outcomes in the RG is looking at Internet Standards for anti-spam efforts. One possibility is to ask the ASRG in a more focused way to report on actions that are ready to pass to the IETF. Another question that the IAB could ask is if there are other documents to need to be done here. Options for further consideration include a Workshop, an expanded framework of effort that includes IETF-based WG activity in conjunction with RG activity, additional investigatory efforts on the topic


A telechat will be convened to discuss this topic in further detail.
7. #### Process for Individual Submissions to RFC Editor



The IAB notes the [proposal from John Klensin](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/docs2003/2003-08-28-klensin-rfc-editor/) regarding the RFC Editor’s process for handling revisions of individual submissions to the RFC Editor.


The IAB decided to await the RFC Editor’s response to the proposals before making any comment on this topic.
8. #### .int Considerations



The IAB noted a planned [ITU-T workshop](http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/worksem/int/index.html) concerning the administrative and operational arrangements for the .int TLD. It was noted that the current IANA records clearly places this domain within IANA in terms of its administration and technical operation, with an intended purpose of use by various international bodies such as treaty organizations. The IAB noted that the IAB had no intention to place any infrastructure databases referenced in IETF standards into this domain, and that the “.arpa” domain was being used for this purpose within Internet Standard protocols.
9. #### Liaison Considerations



The IAB reviewed the current liaison procedures regarding liaison with the IETF. In conjunction with the current effort in drafting a document concerning the handling of liaison communications, it was felt that there was a need to document the process for entering into a liaison arrangement with an external body, and also documenting the process for appointing individuals into liaison roles and their associated liaison responsibilities. It was considered that such a document be produced as an IAB document.


The IAB considered a [liaison proposal from the Open Mobile Alliance](../correspondence/2003-08-29-IETF-OMA%20Framework_draft.pdf). The IAB Executive Director will review the proposal.


The IAB considered a request for a meeting liaison for an ITU meeting with the GSMP WG. It was noted that the activity level in the IETF is relatively low at this stage, and this should be communicated to the meeting as part of the liaison communication.


Liaison arrangements with the IEEE were discussed and additional information will be circulated to the IAB on current liaison activities.
10. #### IETF Plenary Structure



Due to time constraints, consideration of this item was deferred to the IAB mailing list.
11. #### IAB Liaison to the Nomcom



The IAB will select a Nomcom liaison from the 6 IAB members whose term is not expiring in March 2004. The selection was not completed at the meeting.
12. #### IAB Teleconf Call Scheduling



The scheduling of IAB calls currently covers 6 timezones, from UTC+10/+11 to UTC-8/-7. Consideration was given to altering the start time of the meeting, without consensus for any change to the meeting schedule. The matter will be further considered on the mailing list
13. #### Other Business




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  

[Feb-03]  

*Closed*  

Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC

	+ A registry selection criteria and conditions document is to be drafted
	+ This item forms part of the IAB Advisory Committee activity
* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Identify particular issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations

	+ Collate responses from wg chairs and circulate writeup to IAB by 23 Sept
* **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
Mark Handley  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players.

	+ Initial draft prepared for IAB review
	+ IAB review to consider whether this is to be adopted as an IAB draft
	+ IAB Reviewers: Eric, James, Sally. Review by 19th Sept
* **WG Status**
Leslie Daigle, All  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.

	+ Document followup procedures
* **IANA instruction for IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs

	+ Advise RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein should be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design.
	+ Documenting RIR proposal then instructing IANA regarding delegation
* **IAB Member details web page**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add an expanded members web page with affiliations, etc, to the IAB web site.

	+ Waiting bio from Rob
* **Address Architecture**
Mark Handley  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Summarize the issues raised at the Open Meeting

	+ send draft to IAB list for comment
* **Address Architecture Discussion**
Eric Rescorla, Leslie Daigle  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Moderate a mailing list dedicated to followup on the address architecture topic

	+ Mailing list to be set up at the start of September with charter as drafted
	+ 2003-08-14-SAddArchCharter.html
	+ Leslie to set up ietf list by 19th Sept
* **Liaison Statement Draft**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft IAB Liaison Procedures document
* **IAB Mailer**
Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston, Eric Rescorla  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume
* **IAB Web Mail**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Implement a web-based mail-deposit archive for IAB members
* **IAB Architectural Issues Web Page**
Sally Floyd  

[Aug-03]  

*current*  

Status: Update current draft page for publication as part of the IAB Web pages

	+ http://www.icir.org/floyd/architecture.html
	+ IAB Review: Geoff, Mike
* **IPv6 Transition Security Issues**
Rob Austein  

[Aug-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Circulate IPv6 Transition Security Issues document to V6ops WG
* **IETF Plenary**
Leslie Daigle  

[Aug-03]  

*current*  

Status: Leslie to pass to the IESG for review / comment
* **Advisory Committee**
Leslie Daigle  

[Aug-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Form committee and report on progress to the IAB
* **GGF Liaison**
Leslie Daigle  

[Aug-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Establish Liaison with GGF as per proposed arrangements

	+ Schedule pre-IETF Liaison meeting with GGF
* **Anti-Spam**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Set up telechat for interested IAB members
* **.int**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Clarify current administrative and delegation arrangements for .int TLD with IANA
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review proposed agreement and circulate proposed changes to IAB
* **GSMP – ITU Liaison**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Communicate liaison requirements to Avri Doria
* **Liaisons**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Liaison procedures and roles need to be defined in a document


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (5-Aug-03)

	1. (current) RFC Editor: AUTH
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revise

	1. (current) Revise as per IAB review
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revise

	1. (current) Revise as per IAB review
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Service Identification in packets**  

[draft-iab-service-considerations-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-service-id-considerations-02.txt)
Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (15-Aug-03)

	1. (current) RFC Editor: EDIT
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-00.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-congestion-00.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) review and discussion
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-03.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-iana-03.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*closed*  

Status: Passed to the IAB Advisory Committee (advcomm@ietf.org)

	1. (current)
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*IESG*  

Status: Leslie to revise with last call comments

	1. (current) BCP
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) Revise as per IAB review
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/about/description.html](/about/description/)
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested

	1. (current) ekr to edit
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
	2. (next) Bernard will circulate draft by 12 September
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operational activities
	2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.
	3. (next) token pass in IAB mailer
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-rescorla-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) IAB Draft
	2. (next) IAB Reviewers: Geoff, James, Sally and Mike
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


