
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**4 November 2003**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 11 November 2003


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [IETF 58 Preparation](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [Other Regular Business](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Tony Hain appeal of IESG decision re. IPv6 Site Local Addresses](#7 "Notes 7")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [14 October Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-10-14/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* IESG held a retreat in Chicago 3rd week of October to discuss proposals for reformation in more detail.
	
	
	The result is a work-plan for presenting our thinking at the upcoming IETF meeting (in IESG plenary) and publication of a number of Internet-drafts.
	* IESG Telechat schedules have moved during Nov and Dec as follows:
	
	
		+ November 20
		+ December 4 and 18
		+ January 8then back to normal bi-weekly schedule.
	* IESG online balloting system seems to work pretty well.
**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* We’ve been examining the nroff generated by Marshall Rose’s xml2rfc tool and are compiling a list of formatting problems.
	* We validated rfc-index.xml schema through a more rigorous checker and found a previously unknown error.
	* Following the IAB’s reqeust, the RFC Editor has placed its Editorial board on hold.
The IAB discussed a number of outstanding matters relating to processing of documents and some queries that the RFC Editor has forwarded to the IESG.”


**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* No items reported.
**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* The IETF Nomcom has agreed to appoint Brian Carpenter as ISOC’s Board liaison to the Nomcom. The main purpose for this liaison is to act as a witness to the process.
	* The next ISOC Board meeting will take place on November 8th & 9th at the: Minneapolis Hilton & Towers in Minneapolis, MN. The meeting starts at 8:30 AM on Saturday and concludes at 12N on Sunday. The Board meeting is open to anyone.
	* ISOC recently released two bulletins in response to the various discussions taking place on Inter-governmental organizations and their role in Internet matters:
	
	
		+ Internet Governance: Strength and Stability through Open consensus <http://www.isoc.org/news/2.shtml>
		+ – Genius of the Internet: Open Processes drive growth and connectivity <http://www.isoc.org/news/4.shtml>
**IAB Advisory Committee**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* There will be a joint IESG / IAB meeting on Sunday November 9 to review the Committee’s report.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* Some informal discussion has taken place concerning possible arrangements relating to coordination of activity.
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* No items reported
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* No items reported
5. #### IETF 58 Preparation



The IAB BOF report schedule has been completed. BOF reports are to be circulated to the IAB and IESG, as usual.


The IAB meeting schedule for IETF 58 is:



	* Sunday November 9, 9am – 2pm – Joint meeting with IESG to consider Advisory Committee Report
	* Monday 10th, Wednesday 12th, and Friday 14th, 7:30 am, joint breakfast meetings with the IESG
	* Tuesday 11th, 7:30 am, consideration of Hain appeal
	* Tuesday 11th, 6:30 pm
	
	
		+ Presentation on Global Grid Forum activities by nominated IETF Liaison to the Global Grid Forum, Brian Carptenter.
		+ Consideration of alignment between the IAB draft on end-to-end futures and the Digitial Identities survey document. (Geoff)
		+ Issues of end-to-end, security peer-to-peer and the future of Internet services such as email. (Bernard)
	* Thursday 13th, 7:30 am, Anti-Spam Research Group review. The purpose of the review is to set expectations regarding likely ASRG outputs and potentially providing some perspectives on ASRG activities from IAB members, and consideration of other potential activities in the IETF space related to this topic.
Plenary scheduling will use Wednesday evening for regular reports and reform proposal presentations. Thursday evening will include open microphone sessions for the IESG and IAB.
6. #### Other Regular Business



No other items of regular business



[*Liaisons and IETF Chair left the meeting at this point*]
7. #### Tony Hain appeal of IESG decision re. IPv6 Site Local Addresses



The IAB continued consideration of the Tony Hain appeal.




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IANA instruction for 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs

	+ Advised RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein are to be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design. Initial RIR design draft has been passed to Patrik and Rob for comment.
	+ IAB ExecD has been advised that the RIRs have formed the Number Resource Organization (NRO), and the NRO is expected to encompass common RIR functions such as proposed here. The RIRs have been requested to advise the IAB if the NRO is to be the intended delegation point. Awaiting RIR response to this query
* **IAB Mailer**
Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston, Eric Rescorla  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume

	+ Select new list moderators and consider new strategy for list management
* **IAB Web Mail**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Implement a web-based mail-deposit archive for IAB members

	+ Evaluating alternatives
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Response sent to OMA
* **Liaisons**
Leslie Daigle  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Liaison procedures and roles need to be defined in a document

	+ draft circulated to IAB
* **IESG Query – Protocol Validity Checks**
Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  

[Oct-03]  

*current*  

Status: Respond to IESG query – requested response date is 7 November

	+ draft circulated to IAB
* **IETF Prep**
Geoff Huston  

[Oct-03]  

*current*  

Status: Architectural Issues in WGs – create status page for IAB use

	+ Deploy an IAB member submission process / issues tracker


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue – AUTH

	1. (current) Authors comments have been returned to RFC Editor
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Ready for IAB to send an IETF Call For Input

	1. (current) Leslie to undertake an IETF Call
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Ready for IAB to send an IETF Call For Input

	1. (current) Cross-reference this document with identity document
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Call for Comment

	1. (current) IETF Call for Input
	2. (next) Comment period closes 14/11/2003
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue (14-Oct-03) – EDIT

	1. (current)
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Call for Comment

	1. (current) IETF Call for Input
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/about/description.html](/about/description.html)
Eric Rescorla  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: drafting updates

	1. (current) iab review
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
	2. (next) Bernard will circulate draft
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
James Kempf, Rob Austein,  

[May-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operational activities
	2. (next) Overtaken by events
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-rescorla-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document protocol models
	2. (next) submit as IAB Draft (experimental)
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00c.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms
	2. (next) Cross-reference this document with e2e document
* **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-200378.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-200378.txt)
Mark Handley  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on DOS attack forms
	2. (next) submit as IAB draft (informational)





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


