
Minutes
 IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**12 August 2003**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Bernard Aboba  

 Rob Austein  

 Patrik Fältström  

 Sally Floyd  

 Mark Handley  

 Geoff Huston   

 Charlie Kaufman  

 James Kempf  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Mike St. Johns  

 Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
 

### APOLOGIES



 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

 Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, 9 September 2003.
 



---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Review of proposal for IAB activities](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [Review of draft-baker-liaisons document](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Review of proposal for scoped addressing architecture discussion forum](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Discussion of IAB Plenary meeting formats](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Other Business](#9 "Notes 9")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


	 Minutes of the [7 July Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-07-08/) were approved. 
	
	
	 Minutes of the [IETF 57 IAB Meeting](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-07-17/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items


	([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents


	
	([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports


	 **IESG**  
	
	*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*: 
	
	
		+ IESG has a small team that is currently testing online balloting tool. Should improve the quality and the speed of IESG balloting.
		+ IESG is internally discussing various ideas on reorganization of processes. As soon as there is reasonable consensus, the ideas are intended to show up as I-Ds.
		+ Currently there are two appeals on the IESG table:
			- one by Todd Glassey, appealing Harald’s decision to suspend his posting rights to IPR WG mailing list (not yet on web site)
			- one by Tony Hain, appealing the INT ADs for agreeing that the IPv6 WG chairs properly handled consensus forming to deprecate Site Local (on web site) The IESG still needs to discuss both appeals.
		+ The IESG has agreed on a more streamlined process on how to ask architectural questions from IAB. This has been passed to the IAB for comment.
			*The IAB noted its general agreement with this proposal, with the understanding that if the IESG elected to nominate particular IAB members to undertake such activities, this would be interpreted as a recommendation to the IAB Chair.*
		+ IESG and RFC-Editor have agreed to copy authors/editors when IESG sends a DNP (Do No Publish) advise to RFC-Editor for individual submissions coming in via RFC-Editor. This should make things yet more transparent.
		+ IESG discussed Eric’s “[boxes and arrows](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-model-00.txt)” protocol models document and believe that this approach has merit.
			*The IAB will consider whether to develop this document in the context of an IAB document.***RFC Editor**  
	
	*Joyce Reynolds:* 
	
	
		1. The RFC Editor is now using Bill Fenner’s wdiff script. We are providing the three color diff to the authors during our AUTH48 process.
		2. The RFC Editor believes that 2223bis is ready for publication. We are waiting for final review and feedback from Harald and Leslie before we proceed. We feel that this document will always be a moving target and will never be complete. However, we would like to publish ASAP.
		
		
		 It should be noted that the RFC Editor would like to publish 2223bis as an Informational RFC, instead of a BCP, as stated in the Last Call. Through our liaison efforts with Harald, we have been discussing this change. The history of this document has always been an administrative one and we would like to continue to keep it at an informational level. **IRTF**  
	
	*Vern Paxson:* 
	
	
		+ No Items to Report **ISOC**  
	
	 *Lynn St Amour:* 
	
	
		+ No Items to Report
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons


	**ITU-T**  
	
	*Scott Bradner:*
	
	
		+ It was reported that there is some consideration within the ITU-T on reviewing the number and focus areas of the Study Groups**W3C**  
	
	*Leslie Daigle:* 
	
	
		+ No Items to Report **ICANN – TLG**  
	
	*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns* 
	
	
		+ No Items to Report **ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  
	
	*John Klensin:*
	
	
		+ The ICANN Board has had two teleconferences, one to elect officers and create Board committees and one to discuss a non-technical matter relating to the terms and conditions of a TLD registry operation.**RSSAC**  
	
	*Rob Austein:*
	
	
		+ No Items to Report
5. #### WG Tracking


	The IAB reviewed a proposal to circulate periodic updates on WG issues between IAB members. It was agreed to commence this by circulating post-IETF status reports within the IAB.
	
	
	The IAB reviewed a proposal to track open architectural issues through the maintenance of a web-based resource page. This was adopted by the IAB and a page describing “Open Architectural Issues in the Development of the Internet” will be maintained by the IAB as a public resource.
6. #### Review of draft-baker-liaisons document


	The IAB reviewed the Internet Draft [draft-baker-liaisons-00](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-liaisons-00.txt). The IAB noted a number of comments regarding the draft that will be communicated to the authors. The IAB also noted a number of procedural matters regarding the management of liaison activities and these matters will be raised with the IESG and the IETF Secretariat for further consideration.
7. #### Review of proposal for scoped addressing architecture discussion forum


	 The IAB reviewed the draft charter for Scoped Address Architecture Discussion. The charter was approved and the forum will be established at the start of September.
8. #### IAB Plenary meeting format


	 The IAB reviewed the Plenary format currently being used for IETF meetings. It was noted that there are a number of formal items of business in terms of reports that are included in the plenary agenda, as well as some effort to expose some aspects of protocol architecture that are anticipated to be of relatively general interest, as well as including time for feedback and comment from the IETF itself. Some alternative formats were discussed by the IAB, and these will be discussed with the IESG.
9. #### Other Business


	#### 9.1 IPR Issues raised regarding RFC 3552
	
	
		 The IAB decided to pass the IAB’s response to David Jablon to the IPR WG for information. The IAB decided to take into consideration any consensus outcomes from the IPR WG, if the WG takes on this matter, in determining what advice should be offered regarding any further actions to remedy the complaint.#### 9.2 Followup with ISOC on organizational issues
	
	
		 The IAB approved the formation of an advisory committee to assist the chairs of the IETF and IAB in reviewing the organizational issues associated with the functions of the IETF.




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------


### Actions

+ **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
	Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  
	
	[Feb-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC
	
		* A registry selection criteria and conditions document is to be drafted
+ **DNS and IDN Document**
	Rob Austein, Patrik Fältström, Geoff Huston  
	
	[Feb-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs
	
		* Document on Internet Identity realms being drafted. A second document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
+ **IAB input to Security Architecture**
	James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	 Status: Identify particular issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations
	
		* Collate initial responses from WG chairs, review and re-pose the question. Consider use of a Web page to gather responses.
+ **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
	Mark Handley  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players. 
	
		* Initial draft prepared for IAB review (http://www.icir.org/mjh/tmp/dos.txt, http://www.icir.org/mjh/tmp/dos.ps)
		* IAB review to consider whether this is to be adopted as an IAB draft
+ **WG Status**
	Leslie Daigle, All  
	
	[May-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.
	
		* 2003-07-09-WG-tracking.html
		* Document followup procedures
+ **IANA instruction for IP6.ARPA**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs
	
		* Advise RIRs that Patrik Fältström and Rob Austein should be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design.
+ **IAB Member details web page**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Add an expanded members web page with affiliations, etc, to the IAB web site.
	
		* Waiting bios from Harald, Rob and Mike
+ **Address Architecture**
	Mark Handley  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Summarize the issues raised at the Open Meeting
+ **Address Architecture Discussion** 
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Moderate a mailing list dedicated to followup on the address architecture topic
	
		* Mailing list to be set up at the start of September with charter as drafted
		* ./working-docs/2003-08-14-SAddArchCharter.html
+ **Liaison Statement Draft**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: draft IAB response to authors and IESG
+ **IAB Mailer**
	Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston, Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume
+ **IAB Web Mail**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Implement a web-based mail-deposit archive for IAB members
+ **IAB Architectural Issues Web Page**
	Sally Floyd  
	
	[Aug-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Update current draft page for publication as part of the IAB Web pages
	
		* http://www.icir.org/floyd/architecture.html
+ **IPv6 Transition Security Issues**
	Rob Austein  
	
	[Aug-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Circulate IPv6 Transition Security Issues document to V6ops WG
+ **IETF Plenary**
	All  
	
	[Aug-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Geoff to draft a possible plenary structure (done)
	
		* IAB discussion in the 26th August telechat
		* Leslie to pass to the IESG for review / comment and invite the IESG to a joint telechat session with the IAB on this topic.
+ **Advisory Committee**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Aug-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	 Status: Form committee and report on progress to the IAB

### Documents

+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	[May-01]  
	
	*RFC Editor*  
	
	Status: RFC Editor Queue
	
		1. (current)
+ **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Last Call (Closes Aug 22)
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
		3. (next) 02 rev
+ **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt)
	James Kempf, Rob Austein  
	
	[Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Last Call
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
		3. (next) 02 rev
+ **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
+ **Service Identification in packets**  

[draft-iab-service-considerations-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-02.txt)
	Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: RFC Editor Submission
	
		1. (current) 02 draft submitted with call for input comments included
		2. (next) submit 02 to RFC Editor
+ **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-00.txt)
	Sally Floyd, James Kempf  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) review and discussion
		2. (next) awaiting Sally’s revision
+ **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-02.txt)
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) revised per IAB comments
		2. (next) Review document progress in August
+ **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*IESG*  
	
	Status: IESG
	
		1. (current) BCP
+ **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt)
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  
	
	[Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research.
		2. (next) The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research.
		3. (next) Sally – feedback appreciate – there are as yet unwritten sections and assistance will be coopted
		4. (next) Bernard – wireless research is underfunded – will send mail
		5. (next) Sally – there is a commented out section referencing Rob on DNS
		6. (next) Patrik to write section on issues around address scoping and related routing and application interactions
		7. (next) IAB Last Call?
+ **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/connexions.html](/about/description/)
	All  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested
	
		1. (current) ekr to consider undertaking editor role.
		2. (next) ekr to be the editor
+ **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
	Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
		2. (next) awaiting first draft from James
+ **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
	Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  
	
	[May-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operational activities
		2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.
+ **Protocol Models**  

[draft-rescorla-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-model-00.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[May-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Consider whether this would be developed as an IAB document




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/) 




---


