
Minutes
IAB Meeting
-------------------


**18 March 2003, 7:45am – 9:00am PST  

18 March 2003, 6:30pm – 10:0pm PST  

20 March 2003, 7:30pm – 10:30pm PST**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Harald Alvestrand –IETF/IESG Chair  

Ran Atkinson  

Rob Austein  

Fred Baker  

Sally Floyd  

Ted Hardie Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Bernard Aboba (\*)  

Patrik Fältström (\*)  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino (\*)  

Mark Handley (\*)
Aaron Falk — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

\*  Incoming IAB members.



### APOLOGIES


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 8 April, 2003, 4:00 EST.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Introduction to the IAB](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [IAB Appointments](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of IAB-IANA Document](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IETF Secretariat Report](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [ISOC Board of Trustees Selection](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Technical Discussion: Discovery and IPv6](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IAB response to IPv6 Address Architecture Document Appeal](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Interim Steering Committee for the ANSI Homeland Security Standards Panel (HSSP)](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [ISOC Report on research-related activities](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [IAB Plenary Session](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [IAB Chair Election](#10 "Notes 10")
11. [IAB Review of the IRTF AAAARCH RG](#11 "Notes 11")




---


### NOTES



#### 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Introduction to the IAB



The Chair described the role of the IAB and the context in which the IAB operates. It was noted that the mission of the IAB encompasses the management of external relationships and architectural direction. This is achieved through IAB meetings, documents, BOF and WG Charter review and assistance, and workshops. The collegiate mode of IAB operation was noted.



#### 1. IAB Appointments



**Rob Austein** was reappointed to the position of IESG liaison for a further one year term.


**Eric Rescorla**, **Mark Handley** and **Charlie Kaufman** will undertake IAB mail filtering for a 6 month term.


**John Klensin** was selected to serve a term as the IETF liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors.


**Scott Bradner** was selected as the IETF liaison to the ITU-T



#### 2. Review of IAB-IANA Document



The IAB discussed a number of options relating to the future of the IETF’s protocol parameter registry function, and the relationship of this draft to such options. It was noted that the motivation for this document was to draft a statement of work relating to the protocol parameter registration function that did not rely on references to the existing IANA contractor. It was proposed that the document be edited to describe the more generic case of the obligations of an operator of an IETF protocol parameter registry.



#### 3. IETF Secretariat Report



It was noted that there have been some changes within Foretec and Barbara Fuller has been appointed, on an interim basis, Executive Director of the IEFT Secretariat. Other staff are also being trained for various aspects of this role, allowing the function to be distributed over a number of staff positions.


The IAB indicated its willingness to work with the IETF chair in identifying longer term options regarding the secretariat role.



#### 4. ISOC Board of Trustees Selection



The confirmed candidate names have been announced by the IAB. The IAB is scheduled to submit the name of a selected candidate to the IESG on or before 11 April for confirmation. The current IAB action is to determine selection criteria for this position. Due to time considerations, consideration of this action was deferred to the IAB mailing list.



#### 5. Technical Discussion: Discovery and IPv6



The IAB discussed the topic of service discovery in the context of IPv6 discovery mechanisms and authenticity, strength and number of proposed identity and service discovery mechanisms. The discussion compared two different approaches to DNS discovery developed within the IPv6 Working Group, and contrasted basic configuration, in which there is no fundamental difference in providers of the service, with discovery, in which providers have differences that may be of interest when selecting a provider for configuration. DNS discovery falls into the former area, configuring something like a printer falls into the latter.


An IAB draft on this topic will be produced in order the ascertain the level of interest and relevance in further consideration of this topic. The relationship between this topic and topics currently under consideration in the DNSOPS, IPv6, and zeroconf Working Groups was noted.



#### 6. IAB response to IPv6 Address Architecture Document Appeal



Further representations from the IPv6 Working Group have requested the IAB for additional clarification of its appeal response, particularly in regard to the IAB comment relating to the lack of clarity in the working group draft. The IAB noted that they had made a specific call in relation to the appeal to the IAB, and had annulled an IESG action as an outcome of the appeal.


The IAB noted that one possible Working Group response could be to edit the draft where it refers to matters relating to “global scope” of address fields with a view to greater clarity and precision in the language used, and then use a reviewer to provide a writeen commentary as to the clarity and precision of the document. The IAB will present this within their response to the Working Group and to the IAB plenary.



#### 7. Interim Steering Committee for the ANSI Homeland Security Standards Panel (HSSP)



The IAB determined that this invitation was inconsistent with the international profile and standing of the IETF.



#### 8. ISOC Report on research-related activities



It was noted that the US Homeland Security Office has announced an interest in funding further research activity into aspects of network security. The current IAB activity of identifying useful areas of Internet-related research activity is potentially helpful here. It is proposed that ISOC could facilitate some interaction between members of the IETF and IRTF communities and this US body, and relevant counterparts within Europe, with the objective of providing some further clarification of items related to research funding.


Further activity would be undertaken by ISOC, involving interested individual members of the IETF and IRTF communities.



#### 9.IAB Plenary Session



Session Agenda:


1 – [Opening Presentation](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/opening.pdf)  

2 – [IANA Report](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/iana2.pdf)  

3 – [RFC Editor Report](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/rfc-ed.pdf)  

4 – [IRTF Report](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/irtf.pdf)  

5 – [Nominating Committee report](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/nomcom.pdf)  

6 – IRTF Presentation: [Delay Tolerant RG](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/irtf-dtn.pdf)  

7 – IAB Presentation: [Service Identifiers](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/service-id.pdf)  

8 – IAB Presentation: [End-to-End](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/e2e.pdf)  

9 – IAB Presentation: [Research Funding](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/research-funding.pdf)  

10 – IAB Presentation: [IAB Appeal Response](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/ipv6-appeal.pdf)  

11 – Open Session

#### 10. IAB Chair Election



Leslie Daigle was elected as chair of the IAB.



#### 11. IAB Review of the IRTF AAAARCH RG



The IAB undertook a [review](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-03-san-francisco/aaaarch-review.pdf)  

of the AAAARCH Research Group. There was discussion on the role of AAA in the coordination of delivery of a collection of disparate resources and services, and consideration as to whether this is at its core an AAA issue or a service management issue.






---


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS



No current action or document status review was undertaken at this meeting.  

The following new actions were noted.


### Actions


* **IAB Workshops**
All  

[Mar-03]  

*new*

	+ Revisit workshops, and reconsider this along the lines of approach, topic, and logistics.
* **IAB Mailer**
Leslie Daigle  

[Mar-03]  

*new*

	+ Coordinate change of details and inform the moderator trio (Eric, Mark & Charlie) and Exec-Dir of changes.
* **IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board**
Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston  

[Mar-03]  

*new*

	+ document IAB considerations
	+ add standing agenda item for liaison report
	+ inform candidate of IAB considerations
	+ inform ICANN of IAB selection
	+ inform other candidates


The following new document activities were noted.


### Documents


* **IAB Overview**
All  

[Mar-03]  

*new*

	+ review “so what does the IAB do anyway” and suggest changes / updates
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-01.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*

	+ Redraft using a generic registry model description
* **IAB Considerations of Proliferation of Service Discovery Mechanisms**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*new*

	+ write draft for IAB review





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/)




---


