
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**8 April 2003, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm US EST**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


none
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 13 May 2003, 4:00 EST.


---


### AGENDA


0. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [Liaison Reports and Organization Updates](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [IAB input to Security Architecture](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [SIP for IAB teleconferences](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [ICANN hidden root primary](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Global Grid Forum — liaison](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [IPv6 Site Local — IAB considerations](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [ISOC Board of Trustee Appointment](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [Other Business](#10 "Notes 10")
10.1 [CVS toolset](#0 "Notes 10.1")  

10.2 [US ANSI Homeland Security Standards Panel](#0 "Notes 10.2")




---


### NOTES



#### 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [March 11 Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-03-11/ "Minutes") were approved.


Minutes of the [March 18 Meeting](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-03-18/ "Minutes") were approved, subject to a redrafting of the notes relating to consideration of discovery and IPv6.



#### 1. Review of Action Items


([see below](#actions))
#### 2. Review of Documents


([see below](#documents))
#### 3. Liaison Reports and Organization Updates



**IESG**  

The IESG has received some comments on the IAB secmech draft. These have been forwarded to the IAB document editors. Overall IESG feedback on the document is positive.


The IESG is going through the transfer process from old to new members including who takes care of which WG and how to handle the unresolved discuss comments from former IESG members.


The IESG is looking into moving BGP to draft standard without moving the TCP MD5 option to draft standard (even though deployed BGP security uses TCP MD5) by applying a variance procedure (and documenting the application of that procedure in an I-D that will become an RFC).


**RFC Editor**  

No items to report.


**IRTF**  

IRTF Chair is awaiting a draft charter for a possible Mobile IP RG. Further development of the Peer-to-Peer RG has been restarted. The Name Space RG really wants to go away, but the RFC editor has returned their document asking for a significant set of organizational and clarity edits.


No progress yet regarding an IRTF IPR policy.


At the IRSG dinner, several IRSG members expressed that they would find value in having some form of identification at IETF meetings (colored badge dots).


**ISOC**  

ISOC has historically had a VP of Standards (reporting to the ISOC President). Originally, the ISOC VP of Standards was the person that was seen as the formal contact person for the IETF by other standards development organizations and other groups because the IETF itself had no corporate existence. With the maturing of the IETF process, and the various liaisons the IAB now appoints, the need for this role has largely been obviated. In addition, the VP of Standards was seen as the contact point between the ISOC Board and the President and the IETF. However, given the change in ISOC’s governance procedures and the resultant appointments to the ISOC board of 3 Trustees by the IETF, this role is no longer necessary. After discussions with the ISOC board, the current ISOC VP of Standards – Scott Bradner, and the IAB and IETF chairs this role is though to be no longer necessary.


One area that may need to be formally transferred and that is the contact between Hale & Dorr (IETF’s pro-bono legal team) and the IETF. Advice is sought from the IAB on this matter.


IAB discussion of this topic also identified the role of the V-P standards in recommending a chair for the IETF Nominations Committee to the President of ISOC. The ISOC President will examine this matter of how advice is obtained with the IETF and IAB chairs.


**ITU-T**  

No items reported.


**W3C**  

No items reported


**ICANN – TLG**  

No items reported.


**ICANN – Nominations Committee**  

It was reported that the ICANN Nominations Committee’s call for nominations has been published, and any nominations should be forwarded as per the process described in the [announcement](https://www.icann.org/committees/nom-comm/formal-call-05apr03.htm).


**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

No items reported.


**RSSAC**  

It was noted that neither the RSSAC nor the IAB has seen the complete ICANN report on the DNS Root Server System, prepared under the terms of a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement between ICANN and the US Dept. of Commerce, as represented by NIST and the NTIA (CRADA). The IAB was queried as to whether this could be raised through an IAB liaison channel to ICANN.


While a public summary has been prepared, the summary indicates that the full report contains additional technical material relating to the security and operational robustness of the DNS root server system. The IAB considered that this report may benefit from competent and informed technical review by individuals familiar with technical issues in this activity domain. The IAB determined to pose this as a query to ICANN through the technical liaison process.


**ISO**  

No items reported.



#### 4. IAB input to Security Architecture



The IAB considered received comment that a number of IETF WGs are working in security-related contexts at various levels of the network reference architecture stack, and there is the potential for duplication of effort and some unwitting crossing of trust boundaries within the overall outcome.


It was noted that this appears to be an outcome of the level of interaction between WG efforts. It was considered that further information regarding the scope of this issue would be helpful in terms of determining a suitable framework and methodology for looking at this issue, and that WG chairs could be selectively surveyed to provide this further input.


On a related matter it was observed that security review of some protocols often entails an initial exercise of examining large numbers of PDU descriptions and determining the way in which the protocol manipulates these objects. The issue was raised whether a protocol operational description should b provided by the WG to assist the security review of the protocol.



#### 5. SIP for IAB teleconferences



The IAB decided to evaluate a SIP-based conference bridge for the next IAB teleconference call, using a hybrid SIP and PSTN bridge setup. The IAB Executive Director was requested to investigate this in further detail.



#### 6. ICANN’s hidden root primary



As noted in the public summary of the ICANN Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) report on the DNS root server system, ICANN is planning to operate a hidden primary root name server. The IAB expressed an interest in ensuring that the technical aspects of this activity were adequately reviewed to ensure integrity of operation of the DNS.



#### 7. Global Grid Forum — liaison



The IAB has received a liaison request from the chair of the Global Grid Forum. Consideration of this request did not resolve whether the request was related to individual liaison activity, coordination of new standardization activities, or periodic briefings at an Area Director level on current IETF activities. Further information was sought in relation to this request.



#### 8. IPv6 Site Local — IAB considerations



The IAB considered the architectural implication of scoped addresses and their utility in terms of scoped application environments, and the relationship between address and routing architectures. The IAB will seek further information relating to the routing implications of various address architecture options.



#### 9. ISOC Board of Trustee Appointment



The IAB selected an appointee and passed the details to the IESG for confirmation.



#### 10. Other Business



#### 10.1 CVS toolset


The IAB decided to trial the use of CVS as a document control system. A WEBDAV-based toolset may be evaluated in the future.


#### 10.2 US ANSI Homeland Security Standards Panel


The IAB considered the report from Ran Atkinson, acting as IETF observer at the meeting of the interim Steering Committee, held on the 4th April. The suggestion to provide a detailed briefing on the Internet standards process was supported by the IAB. The IAB also decided to suggest a nomination of a Steering Committee Member to ANSI with the note that the IAB would be happy to use this individual in an observer capacity if the nomination were accepted.






---


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS



### Actions


* **Notification Mechanisms**
Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, James Kempf  

[Dec-02]  

*current*  

Status: James Kempf to draft a note on the topic of architectural issues relating to notification mechanisms. Lisa Dusseault to assist.
* **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC
* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Fältström  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs
* **Response to ICANN VGRS proposal**
Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft response to ICANN referencing IETF role and document preparation

	+ response drafted and circulated to IAB
* **IAB Workshops**
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Revisit workshops, and reconsider this along the lines of approach, topic, and logistics.

	+ DOS attack workshop below.Other topics and approaches to consider?
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Generate a survey for the WG chairs to come up with a classification matrix to identify particular issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations
* **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
Mark Handley  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players.
* **ICANN CRADA report**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft a note to ICANN from the IAB as TLG indicating that the IAB understands that a CRADA report on the root name servers has been prepared, and that the IAB is under the impression that there is a substantive component of the report devoted to technical aspects of this activity. The IAB is willing to undertake a technical review of this report if so desired by ICANN under the terms of the activities encompassed by the technical liaison activity with ICANN
* **IAB Conf calls using SIP**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Get in touch with the SIP gateway folk to see if IAB requirements can be met for a trial call in May
* **HSSP**
Mike St Johns  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Contact Ran to followup on briefing proposal.
* **HSSP**
Leslie Daigle  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Contact HSSP chair and nominate a member / observer to the Panel Steering Committee
* **Global Grid Forum Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Contact GGF chair and discuss potential liaison arrangements
* **V6 Address Architecture**
Patrik Fältström  

[Apr-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft a note asking the RIRs what amount of consideration has taken place with respect to the PA / PI space issues with respect to IPv6


### Documents


* **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: RFC Editor (submitted 13-Feb – no progress through queue)

	1. (current)
* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-02.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Incorporate comments from IETF call, plus gather Security AD comment
	2. (next) publish draft with IAB author template and comments incorporated
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

 [draft-rescorla-auth-mech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-auth-mech-01.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) resubmit with IAB editor / author template
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-01.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Use the e2e mailing list for discussion of this draft
* **Report of IAB Network Management Workshop**  

[draft-iab-nm-workshop-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nm-workshop-02.txt)
Juergen Shoenwalder, Rob Austein  

[Oct-02]  

*current*  

Status: Ready

	1. (current) Final edit pass
	2. (next) Pass to RFC Editor for publication as informational RFC
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to review the draft
* **Service Identification in packets**  

 [draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt)
Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) revise as per comment received
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the use of transport control and congestion detection and avoidance for VOIP applications
	2. (next) Sally – To get draft material from Geoff
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-01.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Redraft as a generic IETF registry document
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) review and revise following completion of 2003 process
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/drafts/draft-iab-research-funding-00.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research.
	2. (next) The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research. The drafting group feels that an additional document focusing on operational concerns is needed to support ISOC’s effort to guide governments seeking advice on funding efforts. One or both documents needs to discuss the concerns with how funded research should inter-relate with IETF work. In particular, including funding for individual researchers to attend the IETF, but recognizing that the IETF itself is not a candidate for direct funding. The new, operational document will have Geoff, Rob, and James as responsible parties for the IAB; other area experts may be recruited as needed.
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/connexions.html](/about/description/)
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested

	1. (current) active
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: write draft for IAB review.

	1. (current) Check with relevant ADs for interest and timing.





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/)




---


