
Minutes
 IAB Meeting — Teleconference
-------------------------------------


**11 February 2003, 3:00pm – 5:00pm EST**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Harald Alvestrand –IETF/IESG Chair  

 Ran Atkinson  

 Rob Austein  

 Fred Baker  

 Sally Floyd  

 Geoff Huston   

 Ted Hardie  

 Charlie Kaufmann  

 James Kempf  

 Erik Nordmark — Liaison from the IESG  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Eric Rescorla


### REGRETS



 Mike St. Johns  

 Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING



 Tuesday, 11 March, 2003.




---


### AGENDA


0. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and](#0 "Notes 0") [Previous Minutes](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-01-14/ "Minutes")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [Liaison Reports and Organization Updates](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Planning for IETF 56](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Selection of ICANN Board liaison from the IETF](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IAB response to ICANN’s request for input on VGRS com/net proposal and plans for further action](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [All other business for full IAB](#7 "Notes 7")
	
	 7.1 [ENUM Trial Directory Request](#7.1 "Notes 7.1")
8. [Consideration of Robert Elz’ appeal against IESG decision to approve draft-ietf-ipngwg-addr-arch-v3-11.txt for publication as Draft Standard](#8 "Notes 8")




---


### NOTES


#### 0. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes

The minutes of the [January 14, 2003 teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-01-14/)  

 were approved, as amended. 


#### 1. Review of Action Items


 ([below](#actions))
 
#### 2. Review of Documents


 ([below](#documents))
 
#### 3. Liaison Reports

**IESG**


 The IAB has been requested to postpone the IPv6 Security considerations of IPv6 transition mechanisms until current analysis activity is completed. If there are architectural issues identified as a consequence of this analysis, the workshop will be reconvened.


**RFC Editor**  

 No report. 


 **IRTF**  

 The IDRM RG has been closed. The IAB was polled for comment regarding the SPAM RG proposal. There was IAB concurrence with this proposal, noting the current levels of regulatory interest in this area. The IAB concurred with the proposal to form a Searchable Internet Resource Names RG (names at a layer above the DNS) as a small, closed group with focussed objectives.
 



 There is interest in a peer-to-peer RG, although at this stage leadership for the RG effort has not been determined.
 



 An IAB review of the AAAA RG is proposed to be held at IETF 56, although this is yet to be confirmed. A plenary session on the work of the Delay Tolerant Networking RG has been confirmed.
 


 **ISOC**  

 It was reported that ISOC will be using the IAB research draft when discussing research agendas with funding agencies.


**ITU-T**


 The IAB liaison is in receipt of two queries from SG2 relating to the operational characteristics of the root and .arpa domain name servers, and to the administrative arrangements concerning the management of the .arpa and e164.arpa zones.
 


**W3C**


 A coordination call with W3C is scheduled for later in February. It was also noted that there is a request for the scheduling of a URI BOF at the forthcoming IETF with an IRI component.


 **ICANN**  

 Leslie Daigle and Harald Alvestrand reported that they had met with the Department of Commerce regarding aspects of the protocol parameter assignment role and they expressed IAB concerns in this area.


**RSSAC**


 RSSAC has scheduled a meeting for the Sunday prior to the next IETF.
 


 The proposal to add a AAAA record into the root zone for the .jp ccTld appears to be awaiting an environmental impact assessment at this stage.
 


**ISO**


No report.



#### 4. Planning for IETF56


 The IAB plans to meet on Tuesday morning for a regular IAB Business Meeting. The Tuesday evening is planned to consider technical topics – suggestions were requested from IAB members.
 



 The IAB will meet on Thursday morning to conduct a review of the AAAA RG (<http://www.irtf.org/charters/aaaarch.html>)
 



 The IAB plenary agenda was discussed, and the proposal is to have the regular updates, followed by an IRTF presentation from the Delay Tolerant Networking Research Group. This would be followed by presentations on current IAB documents, proposed at this stage to be the research document (Ran & Sally) and the end-to end document (James). The plenary will conclude with the open mic session.
 


#### 5. Selection of ICANN Board liaison from the IETF


 The IAB selection process is still underway to nominate an individual as IETF Liaison to ICANN for a period that would conclude with the ICANN Annual General Meeting for 2003.
 



 The IAB selected Mike StJohns to be the IETF-nominated member of the ICANN Nominations Committee.



####  6. IAB response to ICANN’s request for input on VGRS com/net proposal and plans for further action


 As a part of is response to ICANN, the IAB has undertaken to ensure that a second, more general document on current DNS operational issues, including but not limited to the current VGRS issue, incorporating reference to the IDNA documents current in the RFC publication process.




It was decided that the IAB would coordinate the assembly of the document, but enlist the support of a number of Working Groups in authoring specific sections, as well as involving the relevant Area DIrectors. The objective is to identify technical issues related to IETF protocols and their appropriate use.



#### 7. Other Business


7.1 **ENUM Trial Directory**




The IAB has received a request from the RIPE NCC regarding the maintenance of a ENUM directory as an interim tool to support the various ENUM trial deployments.




The IAB noted some concerns relating to the longer term issue of ENUM directories and associated privacy and regulatory issues, but saw some value in an interium directory within the context of various tests and trials of ENUM services. However, the IAB decided that if specifically does not direct RIPE to undertake this service as part of its e164.arpa technical administrative role and furthermore will advise RIPE that it may be appropriate that some other entity udertake this role in support of the current ENUM trials.



#### 8. Consideration of Robert Elz’ appeal


The voting members of the IAB considered a draft response to the Elz appeal and decided further actions that will lead to a conclusion of this matter.






---


### ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS


### Actions+ **IAB Research Agenda**
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet. This includes documenting important topics for research
	
		* The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research. The drafting group feels that an additional document focusing on operational concerns is needed to support ISOC’s effort to guide governments seeking advice on funding efforts. One or both documents needs to discuss the concerns with how funded research should inter-relate with IETF work. In particular, including funding for individual researchers to attend the IETF, but recognizing that the IETF itself is not a candidate for direct funding. The new, operational document will have Geoff, Rob, and James as responsible parties for the IAB; other area experts may be recruited as needed.
		* The current document is available online for internal review at: <http://www.icir.org/floyd/research/draft-iab-research-funding-00f.txt>
		* Rob Austein – IESG review
+ **IAB IPV6 Deployment Security Workshop**
	Eric Rescorla, Rob Austein, James Kempf  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*deferred*   
	
	Status: Workshop problem statement that includes emphasis on security consideration of various transition solutions (secure 6-to-4 relay, etc). Proposal drafted, Venue proposed in Japan, early 2003
	
		* IESG – request postponement until opportunity for off-line analysis to be undertaken – if there are architectural issues then reconvene the workshop. There are some activities already underway.
+ **IAB RFC Publication Process**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	 Status: Draft circulated 
	
		* IAB decision for web publication
+ **SC22 Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Oct-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: draft a note declining Cat C liaison
+ **IAB Balloting System**
	Leslie Daigle, Erik Rescorla  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Initial deployment of the system
+ **RIR Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: draft a liaison proposal for IAB consideration – pending discussion
	
		* Leslie & Harald sat with Axel Pawlik, Ray Plzak and Anne Lord of the RIRs – productive chat listing areas of interface and moving forward.
+ **Notification Mechanisms**
	Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, James Kempf  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: Ted, James – to form activity group to investigate architectural issues relating to notification mechanisms
	
		* talking to lemonade bof folk – guidance being given the requirements for a document are not clear. IAB notifications considerations document appear to be useful – ted and james to sit with Ned in SF and talk this through
+ **ICANN Board Liaison**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Dec-02]  
	
	*current*   
	
	Status: selection process underway
+ **ITU-T SG2 Liaison Questions**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Draft responses to SG2 questions relating to e164.arpa arrangements
+ **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
	Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC
+ **ICANN Nominations Committee**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Pass Mike ST John’s name to ICANN as IETF member of the ICANN Nominations Committee
+ **DNS and IDN Document**
	Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs
+ **Response to ICANN VGRS proposal**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Draft response to ICANN referencing IETF role and document preparation
+ **Response to RIPE re ENUM directory**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Feb-03]  
	
	*New*   
	
	Status: Communicate IAB response

### Closed Actions



### Documents


+ **Security considerations, including common security attacks**  

[draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-sec-cons-03.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafted
	
		1. (current) 03 document
		2. (next) Resubmission to IESG for protocol action and entry to RFC Editor Queue
		3. (next) The IAB would like to submit a good document, but there is some concerns over the length of time of the process of IETF Last Call – Erik N and Harald to check on IESG status
+ **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-01.txt)
	Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  
	
	 [May-01]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) 02 version to be published
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
+ **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-rescorla-auth-mech-00.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	 [Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) Incorporate comments
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
+ **Referential Integrity**
	Fred Baker, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) draft a document that describes the issues associated with referential integrity
		2. (next) check with Patrik – leave for 1 more go round and delete if no progress
+ **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-00.txt)
	James Kempf, Rob Austein  
	
	 [Jul-02]  
	
	*updated*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) Good comments received, further revision to be published before the drafts deadline for IETF56, and either set up a mailing list to discuss or use the existing e2e mailing list if Bob Braden agrees.
+ **Report of IAB Network Management Workshop**  

[draft-iab-nm-workshop-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nm-workshop-01.txt)
	Ran Atkinson, Juergen Shoenwalder  
	
	 [Oct-02]  
	
	*updated*  
	
	Status: Final call
	
		1. (current) Last editing pass prior to submission for publication
		2. (next) Pass to RFC Editor for publication
+ **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**
	Ted Hardie, Patrik Faltstrom, Ran Atkinson  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Document the issues relating to the proposed use of IRIs as protocol elements – checking with IRI authors
		2. (next) draft sent – need examples
+ **Service Identification in packets**  

[draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-00.txt)
	Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) comments received on initial draft. Some indicate that the current draft draft has eliminated too much of the context that motivated it. Some context will be restored in the next draft. Mike will provide draft with Geoff’s input.
+ **Transport Controls for VOIP**
	Geoff Huston, James Kempf  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Document the use of transport control and congestion detection and avoicance for VOIP applications
		2. (next) leave for 1 more go round and delete if no progress
+ **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-00.txt)
	Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Draft Published
	
		1. (current) IETF comment on the draft
		2. (next) Comments received from IANA and ICANN indicate some confusion about why the MoU is not called out. This document describes the function of which the MoU is an instantiation; it thus cannot make a normative reference to the MoU. A future draft will make explicit the relationship between this document and the MoU.
		3. (next) to be submitted to drafts editors
+ **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Editing
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) comments – community ACK
		3. (next) Action – Note to Alan Greenberg




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/) 


 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/documents/) 




---


