
Minutes
IAB Meetings at IETF 57
-------------------------------


**13 – 17 July 2003, Vienna, Austria**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 12 August 2003.


---


### AGENDA


1. [Confirmation of IESG Nomination](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [IAB Open Meeting on Address Architectures](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Mailing List](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Response to ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Review of “Liaison Statement” Internet Draft](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [Reply to Carsten Scheifner (RIPE-NCC) re. ENUM](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Instructions to IANA re. 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa zone delegation](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [IRTF Report](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Technical Discussion: Routing](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [IAB Open Plenary](#10 "Notes 10")




---


### NOTES



#### 1. Confirmation of IESG Nomination



The voting members, with the exception of the Chair of the IETF, met to consider confirmation of the nominated candidate for the vacant position of Internet Area Director. The IAB confirmed the nomination of Margaret Wasserman to this position.


The IAB discussed their requirements for information to be provided by all future Nominating Committees when requesting confirmation of a nominated individual. The requested material to be provided to the IAB is to include:


* Resume or CV of the candidate
* Summary of the IETF feedback on the candidate
* Summary of the IETF community feedback on the state of the Area and it’s current needs
* The Nomcom’s conclusions of the qualifications required for the position
* Nomcom’s view of the qualifications of the candidate to undertake the role associated with the position
* Candidate’s statement to the Nomcom on the position, conveyed to the IAB with the candidate’s knowledge and assent.


A [notice](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2003/2003-07-23-nomcom) to this effect is to be published on the IAB’s Web site.



#### 2. IAB Open Meeting on Address Architectures



The IAB Open Meeting on Address Architectures was held at IETF57 on Monday 14th July, 3:30 – 5:30 pm. The presentations and a note of the discussion are held in the [IAB Document archive](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2003/index), and will also be published as part of the [proceedings of the IETF meeting](http://www.ietf.org/proceedings/03jul/index.html).


In reviewing the Open Meeting material the IAB noted that there is considerable overlap with previous activity undertaken within the Name Space Research Group (NSRG), although the level of documentation of outcomes from this group was somewhat low. The space of consideration encompasses, among other topics, devices with multiple addresses per interface, issues of dynamic renumbering or dynamic switching of ‘self’ source addresses, survivability of end-to-end sessions across lower level changes, various forms of auto-configuration and scoped identities. The observation was made that the exercise has been successful in identifying that there is a substantive topic here, rather than a selection of pieces of various puzzles.


The IAB will write up the material presented at the Open Meeting, together with initial IAB considerations on this topic, and host a moderated forum for further discussion on the role of addresses in the IP architecture.



#### 3. IAB Mailing List



Mark Handley, Eric Rescorla and Charlie Kaufman will continue as IAB mailing list moderators. Consideration will be given to automation of the moderation task. The approach is intended to include virus detection and consideration of challenge-response form of mail filtering.



#### 4. Response to ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee



A response to the ICANN SECSAC will be drafted, noting that there is a difference in perspective between observations on operational deployment and observations on the level of conformance to IETF Standards.



#### 5. Review of Liaison Statement Internet Draft



IAB review of this internet draft ([draft-baker-liaisons-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-liaisons-00.txt)) is to be included on the agenda of the next IAB meeting.



#### 6. Reply to Carsten Scheifner (RIPE-NCC) re. ENUM



The IAB considered a proposed change to the e164.arpa documentation concerning a restatement of the administrative and technical contact roles.



#### 7. Instructions to IANA re. 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa zone delegation



The IAB determined that it would issue an instruction to the IANA to delegate the reverse address zone for IPv6 6to4 address space (2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa) to an entity nominated by the RIR’s to operate this reverse zone. The RIR’s are to be advised that Patrik Fältström and Rob Austein should be consulted over the nature of implementation of this DNS zone as IAB-nominated technical advisors.



#### 8. IRTF Report



Vern Paxson reported to the IAB on the state of the IRTF. The goals of the IRTF were stated as being a mechanism for the transfer of technology into the IETF, and to ‘nucleate’ a community where researchers can come together productively. It is not envisaged that every RG achieve tangible results in both areas, but this is an overall intended outcome of the activity. It was also noted that the standardization activity is an attempt to create elements of convergence in technology, while research activities have no particular necessity to converge on particular outcomes or direction, so that there remains a visible and necessary distinction between the IETF and the IRTF activity domains. The discussion also canvassed views on Research Groups and ‘lighter touch’ organizational structures, and the role and placement of IRTF scheduled slots within the IETF agenda. The possibility of ISOC support for activities such as IRTF workshops was also discussed.



#### 9. Technical Discussion: Routing



The IAB discussed the state of research and development in the area of inter-domain routing protocols, and noted that the research focus has shifted back into longer term consideration of requirements and approaches.



#### 10. IAB Open Plenary



[Presentations](../docs/iab-plenaries/2003-07-Vienna/index.html)






---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **IETF Protocol Parameter Registration**
Leslie Daigle, Harald Alvestrand  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Followup actions after meeting with US DoC

	+ A registry selection criteria and conditions document is to be drafted
* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ Document on Internet Identity realms being drafted. A second document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IAB input to Security Architecture**
James Kempf, Charlie Kaufman  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Identify particlar issues relating to the interaction of their WG activities and security considerations

	+ Collate responses from wg chairs
* **IAB Workshop on DOS Attacks**
Mark Handley  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Initial scoping activity: a taxonomy paper on the various forms of attack. Also look at the role of a workshop and the potential players.

	+ Initial draft prepared for IAB review (http://www.icir.org/mjh/tmp/dos.txt,
* **WG Status**
Leslie Daigle, All  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Provide the IAB with periodic summaries of the current status of those working groups that they actively follow.

	+ 2003-07-09-WG-tracking.html
* **Response to ENUM query**
Patrik Faltstrom  

[Jul-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Draft response to RIPE NCC proposal to alter the definition of role contacts in the ENUM registry

	+ 2003-07-24-enum-contacts.html
* **IANA instruction for IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs
* **IAB Member details web page**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add an expanded members web page with affiliations, etc, to the IAB web site.
* **Address Architecture**
Mark Handley  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Summarize the issues raised at the Open Meeting
* **Address Architecture Discussion**
Eric Rescorla  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Moderate a mailing list dedicated to followup on the address architecture topic
* **Liaison Statement Draft**
Mike St Johns, Sally Floyd  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Lead IAB consideration of draft-baker-liaisons-00.txt at the August IAB meeting
* **6to4 reverse delegation**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Issue instructions to IANA to delegate 2.0.0.2.ip6.arpa to an RIR-nominated entity

	+ Advise RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein should be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design.


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*current*  

Status: IAB Chair

	1. (current) Submit 03 to RFC Editor
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-01.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) final review prior to IETF Call
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-03.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) final review prior to IETF Call
	2. (next) IETF Call for Input
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to review the draft
* **Service Identification in packets**  

 [draft-iab-service-considerations-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-service-considerations-01.txt)
Mike St Johns, Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*IETF Comment*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) 02 draft being prepared with call for input comments included
	2. (next) submit 02 to RFC Editor
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-00.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) review and discussion
* **IANA Definition**  

[draft-iab-iana-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iana-02.txt)
Geoff Huston  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) revised per IAB comments
	2. (next) Review document progress in August
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: BCP

	1. (current) Pass to Harald as General Area AD for IESG-managed BCP publication
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-research-funding-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Editing

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research.
	2. (next) The document under development covers the need for research in general and identifies specific areas of research.
	3. (next) Sally – feedback appreciate – there are as yet unwritten sections and assistance will be coopted
	4. (next) Bernard – wireless research is underfunded – will send mail
	5. (next) Sally – there is a commted out section referencing Rob on DNS
	6. (next) Patrik to write section on issues around address scoping and related routing and application interactions
	7. (next) Review progress in August
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/connexions.html](/about/description/)
All  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: IAB review – proposed updates requested

	1. (current) ekr to consider underting editor role.
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
* **IAB Research Agenda – Operational Areas**
Geoff Huston, Rob Austein, James Kempf  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document the need for funding for further research for the Internet, including documenting important topics for research relating to operatial activities
	2. (next) Document focusing on operational concerns.





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


