
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**13 January 2004**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
### APOLOGIES


Rob Austein  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


Tuesday, 10 February 2004


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [OMA Liaison](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [National Communications System RFI concerning Internet Priority Services for National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) communications](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Rejuvenating SAAD?](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Other Regular Business](#8 "Notes 8")  

   

[*IAB Voting Members*]
9. [Nomcom Confirmation](#9 "Notes 9")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [9 December Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2003/iab-minutes-2003-12-09/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* IESG (after consultation with WG chairs list) asked secretariat to split IETF-Announce list into a “ID-Announce” and a regular “IETF-Announce” list. The secretariat is preparing to implement, via a staged implementation.
	* IESG will be discussing (with RFC-Editor input solicited) what the exact expectations are for IESG review of Individual submissions coming in via the RFC-Editor. Hopefully this will clarify things (yet) more.
	* IESG is discussing new guidelines for spam filtering on IETF mailing lists. Once we’ve worked out a proposed text we will solicit review/input from the IETF community.
	
	
	Note, it might be good to have some more interaction between IESG and IAB on this, as the IAB has discussed the topic as well w.r.t. the mail lists they maintain for IAB.

> 
> 
> > The IAB discussed the current processing rate of documents in the IANA wait state. Given the noted concerns from both the IESG and IAB on this, the topic will be raised with IANA.
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 


**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* We are preparing a set of RFC Editor rules on how to implement Scott Bradner’s “IETF Rights in Contributions” documents (draft-ietf-ipr-wg-guidelines-05.txt, draft-ietf-ipr-submission-rights-08.txt, and draft-ietf-ipr-technology-rights-12.txt).
	* The RFC Editor is still working on RFC publication, but the contract is not in place yet. However, we do have an extension of the old contract through 31 March 2004.
	* We have been actively conscientious about the use of XML for RFCs-to-be, but XML has not been supplied by a lot of folks. (Four XML source submissions, so far.)
	* The RFC Editor will shortly set up and announce a new mailing list, rfc-interest@rfc-editor.org, as a home for discussions particularly related to the functions and procedures of the RFC Editor. Official IETF-related business like standards procedures will not be allowed on the list — it will focus on issues specific to the editing and publication of RFCs, and related RFC Editor functions. It is intended to provide a useful conduit for communication between the community and the RFC Editor (and should have been set up 10 years ago!)
**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* The ASRG has been rechartered
	* The MOBOPTS RG has been launched
	* A new charter for the Routing RG is now under discussion
	* A new research group focussed on HIP, or, perhaps quite a bit more broadly within the general area of introducing an identifier/locator split into the IP architecture, is under consideration. Parallel to this discussion is another related discussion concerning a possible HIP working group within the IETF. Any IRTF decision will await the outcomes of IETF consideration.

> 
> 
> > 
> > The IAB decided to further consider the architectural issues associated with an ID/Locator split. The format of this activity is to be determined.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 


**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* RFC Editor: Statement of work and 2004 budget has been agreed by all parties. A contract extension is in place while we complete the legal review (expected to be complete by the end of January). The ISOC Budget also has provisions for additional direct funding for the IETF, and covers IETF & IAB discretionary expenses, and D&O Insurance.
**Administrative Restructuring**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* Harald and Leslie have met with CNRI to discuss administrative restructing arrangements.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* No items reported
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* No items reported
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* No items reported
5. #### OMA Liaison



> 
> The IAB was briefed on the progress of the discussions with the OMA regarding a potential liaison between the OMA and the IETF.
> 
> 
> A proposed liaison agreement, based on the existing documented liaison agreements with 3GPP and 3GPP2, was passed to the IAB for consideration. It was proposed for the IAB to pass this response to the Board of the OMA.
> 
> 
>
6. #### National Communications System RFI concerning Internet Priority Services for National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) communications



> 
> The IAB noted that while such priority override services were provisioned into the PSTN, there was no directly analogous mode of service override in the IP architecture. A pointer to the IEPREP WG’s work is to be provided to the RFI issuer.
> 
> 
>
7. #### Rejuvenating SAAD?



> 
> The broader topic of scoped address architectures also encompasses the id/locator split discussion, and the topic is being considered concurrently in a number of IETF-related fora.
> 
> 
> There is a concern that a fragmented consideration of this topic will be ineffectual for the IETF, and to this end the SAAD discussion forum will not be promoted as a place to consider this topic.
> 
> 
>
8. #### Other Regular Business



> 
> #### 8.1 Potential ANSI Liaison
> 
> 
> 
> > The IAB considered the current status of a potential liaison arrangement with ANSI.
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 8.2 Visa Arrangements for Korea IETF Meeting
> 
> 
> 
> > Harald will followup with the IETF Secretariat in providing information to IETF members relating to visa requirements for travel to Korea.
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
>
9. #### Nomcom Confirmation



> 
> The voting members of the IAB met in their capacity as a confirmation body for IESG candidates, and confirmed the IETF Nomination Committee’s candidate to fill the rest of Randy Bush’s OPS Area Director term.
> 
> 
>




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions


* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between Ads and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IANA instruction for 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs

	+ Advised RIRs that Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein are to be involved in the RIR implementation, as IAB-nominated experts, to assist in the design. Initial RIR design draft has been passed to Patrik and Rob for comment.
	+ IAB ExecD has been advised that the RIRs have formed the Number Resource Organization (NRO), and the NRO is expected to encompass common RIR functions such as proposed here. The RIRs have been requested to advise the IAB if the NRO is to be the intended delegation point. Awaiting RIR response to this query.
* **IAB Mailer**
Rob Austein, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume

	+ Define a mail environment that includes spam scanning and challenge response
	+ With IESG nominee (Bill Fenner) work with Secretariat to install anti-spam measures
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Proposed response to be considered by IAB

	+ Pass IAB response to OMA Board
* **IPv6 Address Architecture**
James Kempf, Mike St Johns  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: review IPv6 address architecture (draft-ietf-ipv6-addr-arch-v4-00.txt)

	+ Itojun has responded
	+ Mike to respond to IPv6 WG by 20/1
* **Liaison to Global Grid Forum**
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Advised GGF’s Charlie Catlett of Brian Carpenter as the IETF’s liaison to the GGF

	+ Request Brian Carpenter to submit a list of items for possible IETF attention from the GGF perspective
	+ Charlie Catlett is interested in having some kind of coordination / discussion phone call sometime in the new year – based on Brian’s list
	+ Leslie to ping Brian for the list
* **IETF / IEEE 802 joint workshop**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf, Russ Housley, Thomas Narten  

[Nov-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Commence organisation of a joint IETF / IEEE 802 workshop, involving chairs of IEEE 802, & IETF WGs that need to work together. POtential topics to be covered include IETF DNA / IEEE handoff ECSG, EAP WG / 802.11, CAPWAP / 802.1af/802.11 and IRTF Mobility/ IEEE Fast Handoff SG

	+ Meeting will proceed as an informal meeting
* **Review of ICANN Document : Registry changes**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review ICANN document relating to changes in registry services and procedurtes relating to technology-related input and role of tech input

	+ Short note to be drafted for IAB review
* **IEEE / IETF Meeting Jan 04**
Bernard Aboba  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Circulate meeting report to IAB
* **IEEE Liaison**
Leslie Daigle, Bernhard Aboba, Bert Wijnen  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Check on acceptability of liaison coordination role with IESG and IEEE
* **NIST Spam Workshop**
Vern Paxson  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Interest has been expressed by NIST for IAB & ASRG participation in the workshop (http://csrc.nist.gov/spam/)

	+ Patrik Faltstrom will attend the workshop
* **ISOC BoT Selection Process**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Commenced process Jan-04
* **ID / Locator Architectural Consideration**
James Kempf, Bernard Aboba, Eric Rescorla  

[Jan-04]  

*current*  

Status: Propose a format for IAB meeting on this topic at next IETF meeting (open slot, IAB Tech, Joint with IESG)
* **NS/EP Communications**
Mike St Johns  

[Jan-04]  

*current*  

Status: Provide response to the National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications RFI concerning the work aready undertaken in the context of the IEPREP WG


### Documents


* **Security Mechanisms for the Internet**  

[draft-iab-secmech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-secmech-03.txt)
Charlie Kaufman, Steve Bellovin  

[May-01]  

*closed*  

Status: RFC3631

	1. (current)
* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) completing IPR text as separate note
	2. (next) Leslie to undertake an IETF Call
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-04.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-01.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **ISOC Trustee Appointment Process**  

[draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-isocbot-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*closed*  

Status: RFC3677

	1. (current)
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **IAB Overview**  

[http://www.iab.org/about/description.html](/about/description.html)
Eric Rescorla  

[Mar-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Published

	1. (current)
* **IAB Considerations on Discovery Mechanisms and IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Redraft as a descriptive framework plus individual proposed contributions as desired
	2. (next) Bernard will circulate draft
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-iab-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) Revise as per comments received
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms
	2. (next) Cross-reference this document with e2e document
* **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
Mark Handley  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) Revise as per comments received
* **AdvComm Report**  

 [draft-iab-advcomm-output-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-advcomm-output-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Publication

	1. (current) Publish committee report as info RFC
* **Liaison Management**  

 [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) Revise with comments in conjunction with baker draft





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


