
Minutes 
 IAB Telechat
----------------------


 **12 October 2004**




---



### 1. Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



> 
> #### 1.1 Agenda
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 1. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
> > 2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
> > 3. [Review of Documents](#3)
> > 4. [IAB Liaison Reports](#4)
> > 5. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#5)
> > 6. [IETF61 meeting prep](#6)
> > 7. [IRTF Chair](#7)
> > 8. [2005 Nomcom – IAB job description](#8)
> > 9. [Response to icann re TLDs](#9)
> > 10. [Upcoming US FTC Spam Summit](#10)
> > 11. [IAB Considerations in TEREDO documentation](#11)
> > 12. [ATIS liaison manager](#12)
> > 13. [IPv6 ULA proposal](#13)
> > 14. [Other Regular Business](#14)
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.2 Attendance
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair   
> > > 
> > > Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair   
> > > 
> > > Bernard Aboba   
> > > 
> > > Rob Austein   
> > > 
> > > Sally Floyd   
> > > 
> > > Mark Handley   
> > > 
> > > Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino   
> > > 
> > > Bob Hinden   
> > > 
> > > Geoff Huston   
> > > 
> > > Eric Rescorla   
> > > 
> > > Pete Resnick   
> > > 
> > > Jonathan Rosenberg   
> > > 
> > > Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC   
> > > 
> > > Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **Apologies**
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Patrik Faltstrom  
> > > 
> > > Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  
> > > 
> > > Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.3 Previous Minutes
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > The minutes of the [September 12 IAB meeting](https://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/iabmins.2004-09-14.html) were approved.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 




---



### 2. Review of Action Items



> 
> The IAB expressed its gratitude to Pete Resnick for his efforts in convening the IAB Messaging Workshop.
> 
> 
> (See [Appendix A](#a))
> 
> 
> 




---



### 3. Review of Documents



> 
> (See [Appendix B](#b))
> 
> 
> 




---



### 4. IAB Liaison Reports



> 
> 
> **IESG**  
> 
> Rob Austein, Bert Wijnen
> 
> 
> * It was reported that Steve Bellovin has resigned his AD position, and will step down following IETF61.
> 
> 
> 
> **RFC Editor**  
> 
> Joyce Reynolds
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > >  The IAB considered a report relating to the position of the RFC Editor in relation to work concerning Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and the IETF publication process. While it is recognised that the existing procedures allow the IETF to direct the RFC Editor to publish a document within the scope of rights assigned to the IETF by the authors, it is unclear whether comparable rights are assigned to the RFC Editor in the case of publication of non-IETF documents.
> > > 
> > > 
> > >  The IAB noted a potential question to the RFC Editor as to whether there is an appropriate IAB action here as part of the IAB’s chartered responsibilities.
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 
> **IRTF**  
> 
> Vern Paxson
> 
> 
> * A new mailing list, rgchairs@ietf.org, has been set up. It provides a public way to reach all of the IRTF RG chairs, as well as the IRTF chair and the IRSG at-large members.
> * Consideration is being given to closing down the Services Management RG.
> 
> 
> 
> **ISOC**  
> 
> Lynn St Amour
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 




---

