
Minutes
 IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**8 June 2004**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Bernard Aboba  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Rob Austein  

 Patrik Faltstrom  

 Sally Floyd  

 Mark Handley  

 Bob Hinden  

 Geoff Huston  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Pete Resnick  

 Jonathan Rosenberg  

 Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor
 

### APOLOGIES



 Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino
 

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETINGS



 Telechat, Tuesday 13 July, 2004
 



---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Response to ITU Liaison Statements](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [Preparation for IETF 60](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [Other Regular Business](#7 "Notes 7")




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


	 Minutes of the [11 May teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2004/iab-minutes-2004-05-11/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items


	([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents


	 ([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports


	 **IESG**  
	
	*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*: 
	
	
		+ Testing of a split team approach to IESG document review is being undertaken by the IESG.**RFC Editor**  
	
	*Joyce Reynolds:* 
	
	
		+ The RFC Editorial Board has been helping the RFC Editor in making decisions on a number of pending independent submissions.
		
		
		
		 For example, The following documents have been rejected:
		
		
			
			 draft-foster-e164-gstn-npusa-06.txt  
			
			 draft-ogura-mapos-nsp-multiexp-02.txt  
			
			 draft-wildgrube-gnp-05.txt  
			
			 draft-lapuh-network-smlt-03.txt
		+ Regarding EAP documents. There has been confusion on who should review them. The 3GPP has been sending the documents to the RFC Editor. The RFC Editor plans to ask the IESG to process/shepherd these documents.
		+ An energetic member of the community has created an RSS feed of RFC (and ID) publications at:
		
		
			<http://interglacial.com/rss/rfc/new_rfcs.html> We’ve added a link to his page on:
		
		
			<http://www.rfc-editor.org/repositories.html>
	 The IAB discussed the role of the Editorial Board, and noted that it was proposed to act in an advisory role to the RFC Editor. Further discussion on this topic will be scheduled at IETF 60.
	
	
	 **IRTF**  
	
	*Vern Paxson:* 
	
	
		+ Yakov Shafranovich has stepped down as co-chair of ASRG.
		+ The proposed “Internet information retrieval service” Research Group will not be chartered. **ISOC**  
	
	 *Lynn St Amour:* 
	
	
		+ Update from the May 2004 ISOC Board of Trustees meeting:
		
		
			- The ISOC Board reviewed the IETF’s request for support of it’s Administrative Restructuring activities and pledged financial and staff support as requested.
			- The new Board was formally seated and the current members can be found here:
			
			
				<http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/board.shtml>
			- Fred Baker (a Board member who was appointed by the IETF) has been re-elected for a third term as Chair of the ISOC Board of Trustees.
		+ RFC Editor contract – an extension covering through the end of December 2004 has now been signed by all parties. The basic terms of the contract did not change, but the Statement of Work for 2004 was updated by the IAB and ISI.
		+ INET 2004 was held recently in Barcelona, Spain. There was significant participation on the program from the IAB and IETF Chairs as well as many other regular IETF’ers. The program will be published on the ISOC web site soon.**Administrative Restructuring**  
	 *Leslie Daigle:* 
	
	
		+ The IAB discussed the current status of the administrative restructuring activity.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons


	**ITU-T**  
	
	*Scott Bradner:*
	
	
		+ Consideration of ENUM instructions minuted under Item 5.**W3C**  
	
	*Leslie Daigle:* 
	
	
		+ A charter for an Applications Area WG for work relating to defining a feed format for representing, and a protocol for editing, Web resources was discussed some months ago (ATOMPUB). It became apparent that there is also a viewpoint that the work should be undertaken within the W3C (as opposed to the IETF). Under the auspices of our liaison relationship with the W3C, the Applications Area Directors and their counterparts within the W3C are considering this. It is the intention of the IETF and W3C that the activity will be housed in one organization, and the other will expect to participate there. No decision has been made as yet as to which organization will be used as the base for this effort. **ICANN – TLG**  
	
	*Geoff Huston*, *Rob Austein:* 
	
	
		+ No items to report **ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  
	
	*John Klensin:*
	
	
		+ It was reported that public comments are invited on the GNSO Council Whois Task Forces  
		
		[1](http://gnso.icann.org/issues/whois-privacy/Whois%20TF%201%20-%20Preliminary%20Report%20V2.%201.0.pdf),  
		
		[2](http://gnso.icann.org/issues/whois-privacy/TF2%20Initial%20Report3.pdf) &  
		
		[3](http://gnso.icann.org/issues/whois-privacy/TF3PreliminaryWithRCMR1.pdf) Preliminary reports
	 The IAB noted that the IETF is working on technology that is related to this matter in the CRISP WG. It appears that these task forces are developing policy that has some technical implications. The IAB considered whether it was appropriate to inform these Task Forces of the current IETF activity, and decided to consult with the ICANN Liaison on this matter.
	
	
	
	**RSSAC**  
	
	*Rob Austein:*
	
	
		+ ICANN is in the process of soliciting public comments on its plan to allow AAAA RRs into the root zone of the DNS. **IEEE 802**  
	
	*Bernard Aboba:*
	
	
		+ A [detailed liaison report](/liaisons/ieee/2004-06-liaison-report/) has been filed with the IAB.
		+ There are no issues of note, as the cooperative activity is progressing smoothly.
5. #### Response to ITU Liaison Statements



> 
>  The IAB has provided  
> 
> [guidance to the RIPE NCC](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2004/2004-01-22-enum-subcodes) in January 2004 that under the terms of the ENUM registry agreement the extent to which RIPE NCC acts as a protocol parameter registry for the IAB is in respect only of delegated country codes listed in ITU Recommendation E.164. Other codes does not fall within this agreement. Communication has been received indicating that this guidance should be in the format of a formal instruction to the RIPE NCC. The IAB will publish this guidance as a formal note.
> 
> 
>
6. #### Preparation for IETF 60



> 
>  The current plans for IETF 60 include:
> 
> 
> 
> 	 Wed AM IESG/IAB – RFC Editor meeting  
> 	
> 	 Plenary – IRTF – Anti-Spam
>  Regarding a possible presentation the topic of SASL was proposed. This topic will be reviewed at the IAB June tech chat.
> 
> 
>
7. #### Other Regular Business



> 
>




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------


### Actions

+ **IDN**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Feb-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Coordinate preparatory work for a possible IAB ‘virtual’ workshop on IDN and related matters
	
		* Compile a list of questions to be addressed in the context of a workshop
		* Leslie, Patrik and John Klensin to review
		* Prepare workshop plan for IAB approval
+ **OMA Liaison**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Sep-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Conclude Liaison Arrangements
	
		* Prepare revised IETF draft agreement
		* Ted Hardie, Thomas Narten, Allison Mankin, Leslie Daigle and IETF Legal Council to review
		* Confirm with IAB and IESG
		* Pass to OMA
+ **ID / Locator Architectural Consideration**
	Bernard Aboba  
	
	[Jan-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Will review progress of Multi6 WG at next IAB meeting
	
		* Interim meeting of Multi6 WG to be held on 14 June
+ **IAB Messaging Workshop**
	Pete Resnick  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Preparation
	
		* Initial invitations sent out – 15 acceptances to date
		* Scheduling: late August / Early September; Proposed location: North America
		* Mailing list of participants to be set up
+ **\*RP protocol parameter value**
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Query the Open Source developers over choice of protocol parameter values for open source versions of redundancy protocol implementation
	
		* Note Drafted – ready to send
+ **Note to ICANN re IANA**
	Leslie Daigle, Geoff Huston  
	
	[May-04]  
	
	*closed*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Prepare formal note to ICANN regarding concerns about IANA performance
	
		* Note sent
+ **Note to MARID regarding DNS RRs**
	Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	[May-04]  
	
	*closed*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Note to MARID WG concerning the choice of DNS RRs
	
		* Prepare an IAB document on this subject
+ **IPv6 Policies**
	Geoff Huston, Bob Hinden, Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	[May-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Draft IAB Considerations note on current IPv6 allocation metrics for review by stakeholders
	
		* Circulate draft note to IESG, IAB and RIR Liaison for comment and review assistance
+ **IRTF Plenary Presentation**
	Vern Paxson  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Propose IRTF Plenary presentation
+ **IAB RG Review**
	Vern Paxson  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Propose a RG for IAB review
+ **ICANN WHOIS TF**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Check with John Klensin whether a note on CRISP activites would be helpful for WHOIS TF efforts
+ **ENUM Instructions clarification**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Leslie to draft proposed instruction text
	
		* Circulate draft to IAB and stakeholder parties
		* Publish as addendum to ENUM registry instructions
+ **SASL**
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Circulate reading list for techchat

### Documents

+ **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Revision
	
		1. (current) Revise as per comments from IETF call
+ **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Hold
	
		1. (current) Part of IDN workshop agenda
+ **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding-03.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-03.txt)
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  
	
	[Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: RFC Editor
	
		1. (current) Submission to RFC Editor as IAB Informational – 16 May
+ **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**
	Bernard Aboba  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IAB Review
	
		1. (current) Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms.
		2. (next) IAB Review: Rob, Bob, Patrik
+ **Protocol Models**  

[draft-iab-model-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-01.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[May-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) IAB Review: Sally
		2. (next) IETF Call for Input
+ **Internet Identities**  

[draft-iab-identities-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-01.txt)
	Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Revision
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) IAB Review: Leslie, Jonathan, Sally (done)
+ **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-01.txt)
	Mark Handley  
	
	[Sep-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Revision
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) IAB Review: Geoff (done), Eric (done)
+ **Liaison Management**  

[draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-01.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) Liaison document complements draft baker liaison. Met with Secretariat and Baker to run through two documents – the draft baker document provides a framework – some has been implemented. How to prioritize this activity is an outstanding matter.
		2. (next) The documents are to be meshed to allow the Secretariat to implement a mechanism to track liaison documents. Awaiting a new revision of the baker document, and the iab document will be revised in accordance with that draft, rflecting what has been agreed on
		3. (next) Awaiting revised Baker draft
+ **Applications issues with NATS**
	Jonathan Rosenberg  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: drafting
+ **Top Level Domain Issues**
	Jonathan Rosenberg  
	
	[May-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: drafting
	
		1. (current) IAB Review: Bernard, Geoff
		2. (next) Draft publication following IAB clearance
+ **Use of DNS RRs in Mail Applications**
	Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  
	
	[Jun-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: drafting




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/) 




---


