
Minutes 
 IAB Teleconference
----------------------------


**13 April 2004**




---


### ATTENDING



 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Bernard Aboba  

 Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

 Rob Austein  

 Sally Floyd  

 Mark Handley  

 Bob Hinden  

 Geoff Huston  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Pete Resnick  

 Jonathan Rosenberg  

 Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor


### APOLOGIES



 Patrik Faltstrom  

 Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

 Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair
 

### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETINGS



 Informal Techchat, Tuesday 27th April, 2004  
 
 Telechat, Tuesday 11 May, 2004
 





---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [Current state of IANA](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [IAB messaging workshop proposal](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [IAB technical agenda for 2004](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Review of Individual Submissions by the RFC Editor](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Other Regular Business](#9 "Notes 9")
	* Use of protocol parameter values by CARP / VRRP
	* Telechat time




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


	 Minutes of the [10 February teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2004/iab-minutes-2004-02-10/) were approved. 
	
	
	 Minutes of the [IAB meetings at IETF 59](/documents/minutes/minutes-2004/iab-minutes-2004-03-02/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items


	([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents


	 ([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports


	
	 It was noted that Bernard Aboba has agreed to serve on the ICANN Nominations Committee for 2004 as a liaison from the IAB.
	
	
	 **IESG**  
	
	*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*: 
	
	
		+ IESG had a retreat in April. A report has been passed to the IAB.
		+ Harald, with feedback from the IESG, has prepared an ID to describe how IESG will handle individual submissions that come in via RFC-Editor. The RFC-Editor is agreeable to this approach. Next step is IETF Last Call for comment/input. I-D name is draft-iesg-rfced-documents-01.txt
		+ IESG has a small team (Bert and Bill) to prioritize a number of ID\_tracker wish list items. These, once implemented by secretariat, will improve the usability of the tool.
		+ IESG is reviewing old I-Ds that have been in RFC-Editor queue for a long time to see what we can do to unlock them.
		+ IESG is working on a revised IDnits web page. Current draft is at: <http://www.ops.ietf.org/IDnits.html>. IAB comments are welcome.**RFC Editor**  
	
	*Joyce Reynolds:* 
	
	
		+ The RFC Editor funding arrangements from ISOC for 2004 has been completed.
		+ The RFC Editor has added tags to allow direct links into the RFC Editor queue page. E.g., http://www.rfc-editor.org/queue.html#draft-ietf-ips-fcovertcpip
		+ The RFC Editor Errata page is now linked from the search engine.
		+ The IESG’s suggestion to add a tag for working groups to our RFC INDEX file is in process. We asked the IETF Secretariat to provide WG history from their databases.
		
		
		
		
		 We have received a first cut at working group to RFC mapping from the Secretariat, and are working to improve format.
		+ We are working with Marshall Rose with XML for RFCs to create the desired format we require.
		+ RFC Editor has started a discussion on maintaining rfc-info service, for email retrieval of RFCs, on the rfc-interest mail list. **IRTF**  
	
	*Vern Paxson:* 
	
	
		+ The SIREN RG has closed.
		+ Chartering a HIP-related RG is imminent.
		+ Reviewing a request to charter an “Internet information retrieval service” RG. **ISOC**  
	
	 *Lynn St Amour:* 
	
	
		+ As part of effort to get RFC Editor contract formally extended through 2004, ISOC with IAB involvement, re-iterated their financial support to RFC Editor for 2004 (approx. $575K). Contract negotiations completed, paperwork being finalized.
		+ ISOC Board of Trustee Elections complete, announcements scheduled for April 15th, 2004.
		+ ISOC, IETF, IAB, IPv6 etc. all participated in the UN session on Internet Governance held at the end of March.**Administrative Restructuring**  
	 *Leslie Daigle:* 
	
	
		+ The current activity is to take what was heard in Seoul at IETF59 and revise the drafts accordingly. The intention is to provide revised drafts by 3rd May to allow for review by the IESG, IAB and the ISOC Board of Trustees.
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons


	**ITU-T**  
	
	*Scott Bradner:*
	
	
		+ GSC-9: Hiroshi Esaki will be attending for the IETF.**W3C**  
	
	*Leslie Daigle:* 
	
	
		+ The IAB agreed to allow the IAB comments on the W3C Technical Architecture Group’s report to be published in the W3C forums. **ICANN – TLG**  
	
	*Geoff Huston*, *Rob Austein:* 
	
	
		+ No items reported **ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  
	
	*John Klensin:*
	
	
		+ John Klensin has alerted the IAB that he has been offered some technical consulting work for ICANN. The proposed activity is clarification to ICANN staff in getting across IDN technology and associated practical considerations.
		 
		
		
		 The IAB discussed this and determined this does not appear to represent a conflict of interest with John’s role as IAB liaison to the ICANN Board.
		+ The IAB considered further actions in the IDN space, and noted that while there is considerable activity at present there are still some issues in the use of such names. Patrik Faltstrom and John Klensin will consider if there is some further matters that would benefit from an IAB considerations document on aspects of this topic.
		+ The IAB considered an ICANN request relating to the preparation of an informational document on the forms of checks an application should undertake on the validity of names in various contexts. The IAB concluded that this topic was already considered in RFC 3696, and that there was nothing further the IAB wished to add to the material contained in that document. This conclusion is to be **IEEE 802**  
	
	*Bernard Aboba:*
	
	
		+ The IAB was informed of a number of specific action items coming out of the IEEE 802/IETF Liaison meetings held earlier in the year.
		+ An Area Director query relating to waiving of the fee for allocation of an EtherType in an IETF standards track document was considered. IEEE 802 has a procedure by which this fee may be waived on request.**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*


	* No items reported
5. #### Current State of IANA



> 
>  Thomas Narten reported on the results of an initial analysis of document progress based on the RFC Editor Queue data that related to the processing rate of documents in the IANA state.
>  
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB noted the concerns expressed in the report, and considered ways in which the IANA could be assisted to address this matter of a recent drop in effective throughput. It was noted that while the throughput in measuring the time taken to create new protocol parameter registries could be objectively measured through the regular examination of the document status within the publication process. Similar measurements of the responsiveness of IANA in responding to requests relating to registration of protocol parameters within established registries was not readily available to the IAB. It was noted that some form of ticketing support may be useful in ensuring that all IANA requests are responded to promptly.
>  
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB decided to commence publication of the IANA document queue status on a monthly basis, listing the documents where IANA actions have been required. Other approaches to assist in addressing this issue of an expanding backlog of IANA actions will be explored with IANA staff.
> 
> 
>
6. #### IAB Messaging Workshop Proposal



> 
>  The IAN considered a proposal to host a messaging workshop. The IAB agreed to proceed with the arrangements, noting that the objective here is intended to generate some additional perspectives on the architecture of messaging applications, and is not intended to be focused on reworking current IETF and IRTF activities.
> 
> 
>
7. #### IAB technical agenda for 2004



> 
>  The IAB considered a number of candidate areas for further study including:
> 
> 
> 
> 	* The future of congestion control when deployed in conjunction with real time traffic
> 	* How do we evolve the Internet routing architecture?
> 	* DoS resistant architectures.
> 	* The tension between auto-configuration and security.
> 	* Living with NATs.
> 	* The Hostile Internet
> 	* ID / Locator split in the architecture
> 	* The role and use of identity realms
>  To review these and other relevant technical topics in more detail, the IAB agreed to have monthly technical discussions (IAB Tech telechats). The first will focus on the topic of NATs.
> 
> 
>
8. #### Review of Individual Submissions by the RFC Editor



> 
>  The IAB considered the implications of the IESG draft concerning the proposed IESG handling of individual submissions to the RFC Editor.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB had a number of concerns relating to the potential shift in the preferred method of RFC publication from the “IETF” publication track to an individual submission track, procedures and accountabilities in the area of technical review of individual submissions
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  It was noted that this was within the scope of the IETF Newtrk WG, and IAB consideration was directed towards any additional actions that were appropriate at this point in time.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  An “IAB Considerations” section will be considered for inclusion in the IESG draft on this topic.
> 
> 
>
9. #### Other Regular Business



> 
> 
> 	* Use of protocol parameter values by CARP / VRRP  
> 	
> 	
> 	> 
> 	>  The IAB was informed of a potential clash of protocol parameter values in an open source implementation of CARP. More information will be sought from the open source developers on this subject.
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	>
> 	* Telechat time
> 	
> 	> 
> 	>  IAB telechats will commence at 2100 UTC (i.e. 5pm US EDT) during the southern hemisphere winter.
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	>
>




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------


### Actions

### Actions

- **DNS and IDN Document**
	Rob Austein  
	
	[Feb-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Coordinate IETF document between ADs and WGs
	
		+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
		+ Patrik to discuss draft-klensin-reg-guidelines document with John Klensin
- **OMA Liaison**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	[Sep-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: draft document to be considered
	
		+ OMA has responded with a draft agreement. Requires a comparison with IETF proposed liaison agreement.
- **ISOC BoT Selection Process**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Dec-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Announce Erik Huizer as the confirmed candidate on April 15 to IETF
- **ID / Locator Architectural Consideration**
	Bernard Aboba  
	
	[Jan-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Consideration of next steps by Bernard, Geoff, Mark plus Steve, Margaret and David from IESG – Bernard to set up conference call
- **Review of W3C TAG Report**
	Patrik Faltstrom  
	
	[Feb-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Review the W3C Technical Architecture Group report and circulate review to IAB
	
		+ Allow W3C to publish the IAB comments
- **ICANN Nominations Committee**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Pass Bernard Aboba’s name to ICANN as the IAB member of the ICANN NominatIons Committee
- **Response to ICANN: Application checks on names**
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Prepare response to ICANN on matter of application checks on name syntax – Response to refer to RFC 3696
- **IAB Messaging Workshop**
	Pete Resnick  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Proposal Accepted by the IAB
	
		+ Draft an announcement note for the workshop
- **IAB Tech Call**
	Jonathan Rosenberg  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: 27th April Call – Living with NATs
- **RFC Individual Submissions**
	Jonathan Rosenberg  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: draft IAB Considerations section for iesg-rfced-documents
- **\*RP protocol parameter value**
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Apr-04]  
	
	*current*  
	
	  
	
	Status: Query Open Source developers over choice of protocol parameter values for open source versions of redundancy protocol implementation

### Documents

- **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[Apr-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: IETF Call
	
		1. (current)
- **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) draft published
- **IAB Research Agenda**  

 [draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
	Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  
	
	[Jul-02]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Revision
	
		1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
		2. (next) Submission to RFC Editor as IAB Informational
- **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**
	Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  
	
	[Mar-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Drafting
	
		1. (current) Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms.
- **Protocol Models**  

[draft-iab-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
	Eric Rescorla  
	
	[May-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) Erik to complete a number of sections (-01)
- **Internet Identities**  

[draft-iab-identities-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-00.txt)
	Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  
	
	[Jul-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) gih to complete security section and references
- **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
	Mark Handley  
	
	[Sep-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) draft published
		2. (next) Revise as per comments received
- **Liaison Management**  

[draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-01.txt)
	Leslie Daigle  
	
	[Nov-03]  
	
	*current*  
	
	Status: Review
	
		1. (current) Liaison document complements draft baker liaison. Met with Secretariat and Baker to run through two documents – the draft baker document provides a framework – some has been implemented. How to prioritize this activity is an outstanding matter.
		2. (next) The documents are to be meshed to allow the Secretariat to implement a mechanism to track liaison documents. Awaiting a new revision of the baker document, and the iab document will be revised in accordance with that draft, rflecting what has been agreed on




---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/) 




---


