
Minutes
 IAB Meeting at IETF 61
-------------------------------


**14 December 2004**




---



### 1. Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



> 
> #### 1.1 Agenda
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 1. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Approval of Previous Minutes](#1)
> > 2. [Review of Action Items](#1)
> > 3. [Review of Documents](#1)
> > 4. [Liaison Reports](#1)
> > 5. [Moving forward on the IRTF Research RFC Track](#1)
> > 6. [IAB Liaison to SECSAC](#1)
> > 7. [Liaison Documentation Review](#1)
> > 8. [ISOC BoT Appointments](#1)
> > 9. [IASA](#1)
> > 10. [IAB Tech chats](#1)
> > 11. [IPv6 Allocations](#1)
> > 12. [IPv6 Ad Hoc Group](#1)
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.2 Attendance
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair   
> > > 
> > > Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair   
> > > 
> > > Bernard Aboba   
> > > 
> > > Rob Austein   
> > > 
> > > Patrik Fältstr&oumlm  
> > > 
> > > Sally Floyd   
> > > 
> > > Mark Handley   
> > > 
> > > Bob Hinden   
> > > 
> > > Geoff Huston   
> > > 
> > > Eric Rescorla   
> > > 
> > > Jonathan Rosenberg   
> > > 
> > > Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  
> > > 
> > > Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  
> > > 
> > > Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **Apologies**
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino   
> > > 
> > > Pete Resnick
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.3 Previous Minutes
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > The minutes of the [IAB meetings at IETF 61](/documents/iabmins/iabmins.2004-11-07.html) were approved.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 



### 2. Review of Action Items



> 
> (See [Appendix A](#a))
> 
> 
> 



### 3. Review of Documents



> 
> (See [Appendix B](#b))
> 
> 
> 



### 4. IAB Liaison Reports



> 
> 
> **IESG**  
> 
>   Rob Austein, Bert Wijnen
> 
> 
> * The IETF Chair, IESG have discussed dates for future IETF meetings with the Secretariat. The schedule of meeting dates up to and including 2007 meetings has been published at  
> 
> <http://www.ietf.org/meetings/0mtg-sites.txt>
> * The IETF Chair has been in discussion with the Director-General of the ITU-T regarding a meeting between the IESG and the ITU-T SG chairs in 2005, on topics of common interest in the first half of 2005. The activity related to ITU-T study in Next Generation Networks (NGN) is currently being considered as the topic of this meeting.
> 
> 
> 
> **IRTF**  
> 
>   Vern Paxson
> 
> 
> * The Group Security Research Group has concluded.
> * An effort is beginning to formulate a proposal for a publication series for the output from IRTF research groups, possibly within the RFC series.
> * A proposal is being considered for a Congestion Control research group.
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB discussed the potential role of a Congestion Control Research Group and noted that there appeared to be a level of interest in the group undertaking examination and evaluation of various proposals for control mechanism, particularly relating to high speed systems. The IAB noted some issues relating to architectural specification and concurrent Working Group activity, and the potential role of a Research Group generating specific recommendations. The IRTF chair will undertake further discussion with on this matter.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> **RFC Editor**  
> 
>   Joyce Reynolds
> 
> 
> * The RFC Editor believes there is a not a process-related issue with the failure to publish the NSRG document (draft-irtf-nsrg-report). The author withdrew the document prior to publication.
> * – Regarding BCP 78 and 79 – there are still issues being discussed with the authors and the Area Director. The matter being discussed is:
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> >  BCP 79bis proposes the use of IPR boilerplate that includes the sentence:
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > >   
> > > 
> > >  Information on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.  
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  This statement apparently covers both BCP 78 copyright procedures and BCP 79 patent procedures, but the RFC Editor notes that this is incomplete in the case of BCP 78. BCP 78 deliberately does not completely specify the copyright conditions in the case of independent submissions. The RFC Editor uses a broader allowance for derivative works for independent submissions as distinct from those submitted through the Internet Standards Process. BCP 78 specifies copyright as it relates to IETF submissions under the Internet Standards Process. This is noted in  
> > 
> > [www.rfc-editor.org/copyright.html](http://www.rfc-editor.org/copyright.html).
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  The RFC Editor would like to propose a change the above sentence in BCP 79bis to:
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > >   
> > > 
> > >  Information on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be found in BCP 78, BCP 79, and at rfc-editor.org.  
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  The IPR WG chair Steve Bellovin and the author of BCp 79bis have agreed to this proposed change. This proposal has been submitted to the General Area AD for approval.
> > 
> > 
> >
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB considered this report and noted that it would be appropriate for further legal review of the RFC Editor’s copyright provisions by IETF legal counsel.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> **ISOC**  
> 
>   Lynn St Amour
> 
> 
> * The ISOC Board will be meeting on the 16 December 2004, with an agenda item to approve ISOC’s 2005 budget. This budget includes the IETF’s funding request as documented in the memo from the IAB and IETF Chairs dated 5 Nov. 2004. The IETF budget line item includes the RFC Editor request and the IETF and IAB discretionary funds.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  On approval of this proposed budget ISOC has the IAB Chair’s approval to sign the one year extension to the RFC Editor’s contract for 2005.
> 
> 
> 



### 5. Moving forward on the IRTF Research RFC Track



> 
>  The IAB considered a suggestion for the establishment of a document series for the IRTF along the lines of “research notes”. One possibility considered was that this research document series be distinct from the RFC series rather than a sub-category. It was proposed that such documents be edited and published by the RFC Editor in a style consistent with the RFC series.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB asked that this suggestion be developed by a small group for further consideration by the IAB.
> 
> 
> 



### 6. IAB Liaison to SECSAC



> 
>  The IAB considered a meeting report arising from SECSAC consideration of RFC3869 (Internet Research and Evolution). One item of feedback to the IAB was the suggestion for the IAB to undertake a periodic review and update of RFC 3869. A related suggestion arising from the meeting was for groups such as SECSAC to document their own perspective on what they saw as pressing research topics relating to Internet infrastructure.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  It was reported that the topic of a possible liaison to the SECSAC was raised at the meeting. The IAB considered this from the perspective of a potential IETF liaison to SECSAC, as distinct from an IAB liaison, and noted an initial consideration that such a liaison role would be in the form of enabling clear communication between SECSAC and the IETF, as distinct from a serving committee member.
> 
> 
> 



### 7. Liaison Documentation Review



> 
>  The current status of the IETF liaison documentation was reviewed. The IAB noted that the liaison process draft would include explicit mention that the IETF should allow for an IETF response to liaison statements from organizations where no formal liaison arrangement with the IETF is in place, but should be under no direct obligation to do so in every case. The IAB also considered it appropriate that all liaison statements be accessible in some form of enduring archive.
> 
> 
> 



### 8. ISOC BoT Appointments



> 
>  The IAB will use the process described in RFC 3677 for the selection of an IETF-noiminated Trustee of the Internet Society. The timing of the process will be determined once the ISOC Election process timetable has been passed to the IAB from ISOC. The IAB will review this process in early 2005 to determine if any amendments to this process are merited.
> 
> 
> 



### 9. IASA



> 
>  The IAB noted that the procedures described in the IASA document allow 45 days for the IAB to select an individual to serve on the IAOC. The IAB determined that for 2005 it will use a process largely based on that described in RFC 3677.
> 
> 
> 



### 10. IAB Tech chats



> 
>  The IAB decided on topics for technical chats for January and February of 2005
> 
> 
> 



### 11. IPv6 Allocations



> 
>  The IAB considered a communication from the IANA General Manager regarding the status of IPv6 address allocations to the RIRs. noting that the initial address block of 2000::/16 would be fully allocated in the near future.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB requested further clarification from IANA regarding the source of instruction to restrict allocations in 2000::/3 (as defined in RFC3513) to 2001::/16.
> 
> 
> 



### 12. IPv6 Ad Hoc Group



> 
>  The IAB considered an informal progress report from the IPv6 ad hoc group on IPv6.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB will publish a draft on the deprecation of the ip6.int domain and submit it to the IETF for publication as a BCP
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB considered a draft proposing a re-formatting of the IANA IPv6 address registries. The IAB proposed that the draft be brought to the attention of the IPv6 WG, as well as other interested communities.
> 
> 
> 



### Next Meeting



> 
>  Teleconference, Tuesday 11 January
> 
> 
> 
> 




---


### Appendix A


### IAB Actions


* **IDN**
	Patrik Faltstrom, Leslie Daigle  
	
	Feb-03  
	
	Actions:
	
		- Coordinate preparatory work for a possible IAB ‘virtual’ workshop on IDN and related matters
		- Summarize outstanding issues, circulate notes prepared for ICANN meeting, compile a list of questions to be addressed in the context of a workshop
		- Leslie, Patrik and John Klensin to review


- **IAB Messaging Workshop**



  

 Pete Resnick  

 [Apr-04]  

 Actions:
+ Archive of workshop material to be created
+ Workshop report to be prepared


- **IPv6 Policies**



  

 IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

 [May-04]  

 Actions:
+ Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int decrecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format
+ submit draft-iab-ip6.int as proposed BCP
+ circulate  

[draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry](http://www.ietf.org/internet-draft/draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry-00.txt) to interested groups
+ circulate allocation unit considerations to IAB


- **DNS Ops TLD Operation**



  

 Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.
+ Geoff to propose a WG action to the WG mailing list on the topic of operational considerations for DNS Top Level Domains


- **IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations**



  

 Bob Hinden, Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing enviironment with scoped and global addresses
+ Bob to take a first pass and outline the considerations


- **IPv6 Centrally Assigned ULAs**



  

 Leslie Daigle  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review draft and IPv6 WG considerations regarding IANA Considerations for this proposal
+ Leslie has posted a preliminary report for IAB review.
+ Consult ADs on issues raised
+ Propose the preparation of a document that would meet the requirements as described in the WG CAULA draft (once further WG revisions are complete).


- **IRTF Review**



  

 Mark Handley, Sally Floyd  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review initial notes and propose IAB document on the role of the IRTF


- **Tech Chat Schedule**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston, Bernard Aboba  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current Action:
	
		+ Jan 25 – IP Configuration – Bernard Aboba , Feb Network Management – Geoff Huston

- **IAB RSS Feed**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston, Bernard Aboba  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current Action:
	
		+ Incorporate IAB drafts and notices into an RSS feed from the web site
		+ consideration of iab-announce mailing list at next meeting

- **RFC Editor Copyright**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston, Harald Alvestrand, Joyce Reynolds  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current ACtion:
	
		+ Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal council for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.

- **Research Note document proposal**
	  
	
	 Vern Paxson, Sally Floyd, Mark Handley  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current Action:
	
		+ Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.

- **SECSAC liaison**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ Pass a a note to the chair of SECSAC inviting a proposal from the chair for a liaison from the IETF to SECSAC, noting the initial IAB considerations for such a liaison role.

- **ISOC BoT Selection**
	  
	
	 Lynn St Amour, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ Lynn to provide the IAB Exec Dir with a 2005 election schedule
		+ Geoff to prepare 2005 material and determine a timetable for the 2005 process
		+ Schedule review of 3677 for the IAB agenda for 2005, to determine whether any changes are merited based on the final outcome of the administrative restructuring implementation discussion.

- **IAOC Selection**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ To prepare a process description for the IAB to follow, based on RFC 3677

- **IASA TT IAD draft**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ Pass a ‘no further comment, ready to proceed’ note to Kurtis.

- **IPv6 IANA allocation address blocks**
	  
	
	 Leslie Daigle  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ To request further information from the IANA GM on this topic



---


### Appendix B


### IAB Documents



> 
> * **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  
> 
> [draft-iab-auth-mech](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt)
> 	Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	Apr-02
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | Editor Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revise as per comments from IETF call |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  
> 
> [draft-iab-char-rep](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
> 	 Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-02]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | 
> 	Hold |
> 	| Current Action:  | Part of IDN workshop action |
> 
> 
> * **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Mar-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms. |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Review |
> 
> 
> * **Protocol Models**  
> 
> [draft-iab-model](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
> 	 Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	 [May-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revision |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internet Identities**  
> 
> [draft-iab-identities](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Jul-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | IAB Review |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Call for Comments |
> 
> 
> * **DOS Attacks**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dos](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
> 	 Mark Handley  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Incorporate review comments |
> 
> 
> * **Liaison Management**  
> 
> [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
> 	Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  IESG Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | Pass IAB review comments on
> 	[draft-baker-liaison-statements](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-liaison-statments-00.txt)
> 	to document authors and IESG. |
> 
> 
> * **Untangling Activeware**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [Apr-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | IAB consideration on the topic of the interaction of NATs, ALGs, Firewals, Application frameworks and IPv6 transition mechanisms. 
> 	 Consider ways of devolving this in a manner that allows productive study of the interactions and inter-dependencies at play here. |
> 	| Next Step: | Draft an abstract and outlines for further IAB review |
> 
> 
> * **Top Level Domain Issues**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-assumptions](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [May-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revision as per received comments |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Call for Comments |
> 
> 
> * **Design Choices When Expanding DNS**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-choices](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications**  
> 
> [draft-iab-link-indications](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-00.txt)
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  IETF Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **OMA Liaison Agreement**  
> 
> [draft-iab-oma-liaison](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-oma-liaison-00.txt)
> 	 Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  RFC Editor |
> 	| Current Action:  | Submitted to RFC Editor 8-Sep |
> 
> 
> 




---


 These minutes were prepared by the IAB Executive Director, Geoff Huston. Any comments should be sent to  

[iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)





---


