
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**10 February 2004**




---


### ATTENDING


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair  

Rob Austein  

Patrik Fältström  

Sally Floyd  

Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino  

Mark Handley  

Geoff Huston  

Charlie Kaufman  

James Kempf  

Eric Rescorla  

Mike St. Johns  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
### APOLOGIES


Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair
### NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING


IETF 59, 29 February – 5 March, 2004


---


### AGENDA


0. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#0 "Notes 0")
1. [Review of Action Items](#1 "Notes 1")
2. [Review of Documents](#2 "Notes 2")
3. [IAB Liaison Reports](#3 "Notes 3")
4. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#4 "Notes 4")
5. [IEEE 802 liaison](#5 "Notes 5")
6. [Planning for IETF](#6 "Notes 6")
7. [ISOC Governance Committee](#7 "Notes 7")
8. [Review of W3C TAG document](#8 "Notes 8")
9. [Clarifying ENUM instructions](#9 "Notes 9")
10. [Other Regular Business](#10 "Notes 10")
	* Liasion Arrangement Updates:  
	
	
	> Open Mobile Alliance  
	> 
	> Global Grid Forum  
	> 
	> ANSI
	> 
	>
	* ISOC Trustee Selection update




---


### NOTES


0. #### Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



Minutes of the [13 January Teleconference](/documents/minutes/minutes-2004/iab-minutes-2004-01-13/) were approved.
1. #### Review of Action Items



([see below](#actions))
2. #### Review of Documents



([see below](#documents))
3. ####  IAB Liaison Reports



**IESG**  

*Rob Austein:*, *Bert Wijnen*:



	* The IESG has posted a draft “spam policy” to WG chairs list. After quick review there (with possible updates to text), the idea is to then post it as the new policy and if the IETF community comes back with issues/concerns, we will have to address those at that time.
	* Reform activities:
	
	
		+ PROTO-TEAM has been established
		+ LICAR WG has been approved.
		+ MPOWR still under discussion.
		+ NEWTRK WG has also been approved.
	* Yearly IESG retreat is planned for March 29-April 1st at ISI.
**RFC Editor**  

*Joyce Reynolds:*



	* The RFC Editor has prepared a set of RFC Editor rules on how to implement [BCP 78](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3667.txt)  
	
	([RFC 3667](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3667.txt)),  
	
	[BCP 79](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3668.txt) ([RFC 3668](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3668.txt)) and [RFC 3669](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3669.txt)  
	
	(draft-ietf-ipr-submission-rights-08.txt, draft-ietf-ipr-technology-rights-12.txt, and draft-ietf-ipr-wg-guidelines-05.txt).
	
	
	They will be posted on the RFC Editor web site and relayed to the IETF Secretariat so that they may update their website and pertinent files.
	* The RFC Editor has set up and announced a new mailing list, rfc-interest@rfc-editor.org, as a home for discussions particularly related to the functions and procedures of the RFC Editor.
	* RFC Editor has been in discussions with the IESG w.r.t. the IESG’s role in reviewing RFC Editor documents. It is not an easy topic to resolve. The IESG and RFC Editor will continue to collaborate and continue this thread at the Seoul IETF and at the IESG Retreat at the end of March.
	* The RFC Editor is processing more documents using XML submissions to generate nroff.
	* The recent document flood is growing the queue (<http://www.rfc-editor.org/queue-stats/>). The RFC Editor has increased editor level of effort to respond.
	* The RFC Editor has added a search function to errata web page (<http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata.html>).

> 
> 
> > 
> > The IAB discussed a proposal to include an additional field in the XML version of the RFC Index, namely a field that named the IETF Working Group where the document was developed, or “Individual Submission” if the document was not the product of an IETF Working Group. The IAB would like the RFC Editor to consider implementation of this proposal, subject to favourable review from the IESG.
> > 
> > 
> > It was noted that the RFC Editor is able to accept nroff and xml source, and the edit function is currently undertaken on the nroff version of the document. The IAB recommended that some further consideration be given to editing xml source documents in xml.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 


**IRTF**  

*Vern Paxson:*



	* A new charter for the Routing Research Group is under review.
	* A new charter for the Ad Hoc Network Systems subgroup of the Routing RG is under review.
	* Pending discussions at the forthcoming Seoul IETF meeting, it is anticipated that a Research Group(s) will be chartered to investigate aspects of separating communciation endpoint identifiers from communication locators. This may take the form of a single RG looking fairly broadly at the topic, or a single RG looking primarily at aspects of the HIP architecture in this context, or two RGs, one broad and one HIP-specific.
**ISOC**  

*Lynn St Amour:*



	* ISOC Governance Committee
	
	
	Details of this ISOC Committee have been passed to the IAB. ISOC will be participating in the following meetings:
	
	
		+ ITU Workshop on Governance – Feb 26th & 27th – <http://www.itu.int/osg/spu/forum/intgov04>
		+ Global Forum organized by the United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force (UNICT) – 25-26 March 2004.Both of these meetings are in response to the Plan of Action adopted at the Geneva phase of WSIS where it was requested that the United Nations Secretary-General “set up a working group on Internet governance, in an open and inclusive process that ensures a mechanism for the full and active participation of governments, the private sector and civil society from both developing and developed countries, involving relevant intergovernmental and international organizations and forums, to investigate and make proposals for action, as appropriate, on the governance of Internet by 2005.” Among the principal issues that the group will address are a working definition of Internet governance, identification of relevant public policy issues and the roles and responsibilities of different stakeholders.
	* In support of these discussions ISOC is also dedicating a portion of our annual INET conference to an Internet Governance Track. See <http://www.isoc.org/inet04/> for general information and <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/inet/04/gov.shtml>  
	
	for the Internet Governance track. A more detailed program will be available in the coming weeks.
**Administrative Restructuring**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* 3 individual submissions have been submitted to the Internet Drafts editor, and will be presented and discussed in Plenary at IETF 59 (draft-daigle-adminrest-00.txt, draft-alvestrand-adminrest-motivation-00.txt, draft-alvestrand-ietf-mission-00.txt).
4. #### Updates from IETF Liaisons



**ITU-T**  

*Scott Bradner:*



	* No items reported
**W3C**  

*Leslie Daigle:*



	* The IETF/W3C coordination group had a teleconference on Friday, February 6, 2004. Minutes will be published to the IETF liaison web page.
	* Highlights included discussion of how to better coordinate our work efforts and meeting schedules. Also, Dan Connolly asked that the IAB offer comments on the W3C Technical Architecture Group’s report (last call ends March 5, 2004).
**ICANN – TLG**  

*Geoff Huston:*, *Mike St Johns*



	* No items reported
**ICANN – Liaison to the Board**  

*John Klensin:*



	* No items reported
**RSSAC**  

*Rob Austein:*



	* No items reported
5. #### IEEE 802 liaison



> 
> Members of the IAB, IESG and others met with the IEEE 802, IEEE 802.1 and IEEE 802.11 leadership in Vancouver in January 2004.
> 
> 
> Presentations summarizing the IETF/IEEE 802 liaison meetings are:
> 
> 
> 
> 	* [IEEE 802/IETF meeting](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/coord.pdf)
> 	* [IEEE 802.1/IETF meeting](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/8021coord.pdf)
> In addition to these two meetings, the group also had a meeting with Stuart Kerry of IEEE 802.11 to discuss new work relating to both IETF and 802.11, including the proposed charter of the IETF CAPWAP WG, work on EAP-based network discovery (which overlaps with the potential IEEE 802.11 Internetworking Study Group), and work on RADIUS WLAN attributes. Bernard Aboba will post minutes from that meeting shortly.
> 
> 
> Action items arising from these meetings are:
> 
> 
> 
> 	1. Cross posting of new work notices. Bert Wijnen and Tony Jeffree took the action item to work this out, looking at a mechanism for mutual notification for new work items.
> 	2. Appointment of a “default” liaison from IETF to IEEE 802. IEEE 802 appointed a “default” liaison to IETF: Tony Jeffree. The IAB will need to appoint a default liaison the other way.
> 	3. Scheduling coordination. IEEE 802 is to send a list of future scheduled 802 meetings to the IETF Secretariat.
> 	4. IEEE 802 is to send a memo to the IAB granting access to IEEE 802 archives to IETF WG chairs making a request.
> One as yet unresolved item is the preparation of a detailed proposal on how to deal with situations in which the “joint participation” model is challenged. The two major examples are: MIBs and AAA attribute work. A proposal was put together at the IEEE 802.1/IETF meeting in Vancouver, but there are still some details to be nailed down. Owners are Dan Romascanu, Bernard Aboba, Bert Wijnen, other interested IESG members.
> 
> 
> The meetings were considered to be very helpful. The potential liaison areas are larger than originally anticipated. The concept of using default liaisons at an organizational level is considerd to be a useful approach. The sentiment voiced at the meeting was to allow individual activities to be tracked at the wg level, and have the default liaisons involved in an as-needed basis.
> 
> 
> In considering this, the IAB indicated agreement to capture the outcomes from these meetings within some documented structure.
> 
> 
> The IAB nominated Bernard Aboba to be the default liaison from the IETF to IEEE 802.
> 
> 
>
6. #### Planning for IETF 59



> 
> The IAB considered a schedule for IAB activities at IETF 59.
> 
> 
> The IAB considered the current status of the identifier / locator consideration and the relationship of this with current IETF and proposed IRTF activities. It was agreed that an issues document would be drafted and this would form the base of the IAB’s further consideration of this at the Tuesday evening technical discussion.
> 
> 
>
7. #### ISOC Governance Committee



> 
> The CEO of ISOC described the formation of the ISOC Governance Committee to the IAB, and sought the participation of the IAB Chair as a member of this committee.
> 
> 
> It was envisaged that this Committee would provide input to ISOC’s directions, position statements, and related activities with respect to the ongoing consideration of Internet Governance matters and the WSIS activity. It was noted that the decision for ISOC’s policies would remain with ISOC and each committee member would be free to support (or not) any points or positions at any point in time. It would be led by the ISOC President and any new ISOC positions would be vetted ultimately by the ISOC Board. It was anticipated that the committee would lend depth, breadth and increased legitimacy to ISOC and ISOC’s activities in WSIS (as well as to the other organizations participating on this Committee.
> 
> 
> The IAB supported the IAB Chair taking a position on this committee.
> 
> 
>
8. #### Review of W3C TAG document



> 
> The IAB agreed to a request to review an initial W3C draft of a document describing the architecture of the World Wide Web
> 
> 
>
9. #### Cleaning up ENUM instructions



> 
> The IAB considered the instructions issued to the RIPE NCC concerning the management of the e164.arpa domain, as further questions have been raised regarding potential delegation of codes within regional numbering plans.
> 
> 
> The IAB determined not to take any further action at this point in time on the matter.
> 
> 
>
10. #### Other Regular Business



> 
> 
> 	* Liasion Arrangement Updates:  
> 	
> 	
> 	> Open Mobile Alliance
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> > Further discussion will take place with the OMA following identification of the appropriate individual to participate on behalf on the OMA.
> 	> > 
> 	> > 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> Global Grid Forum
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> > Articulation of the areas of mutual interest between the IETF and the GGF has commenced. Other liaison activities will be considered once the list of work areas has been completed.
> 	> > 
> 	> > 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> ANSI
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	> > A conference call has been scheduled for the 11th February to undertake initial discussions with ANSI. Leslie, James and Geoff to participate in the call for the IAB.
> 	> > 
> 	> > 
> 	> 
> 	> 
> 	>
> 	* ISOC Trustee Selection update  
> 	
> 	
> 	> 5 Nominations have been confirmed. An announcement will be posted to the IETF Announce list seeking comment o the nominated individuals. The IAB selection has a deadline of March 5.
> 	> 
> 	>
>




---


IAB ACTIONS and DOCUMENTS
-------------------------



### Actions



### Actions


* **DNS and IDN Document**
Rob Austein, Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Feb-03]  

*current*  

Status: Coordinate IETF document between ADs and WGs

	+ A document to answer the specific issues about IDN is needed.
* **IANA instruction for 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA**
Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Draft instructions to IANA concerning instruction to delegate 2.0.0.2.IP6.ARPA to the RIRs
* **IAB Mailer**
Rob Austein, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Add virus scanner and some form of challenge/response gateway to IAB mailer to manage increasing spam volume

	+ Define a mail environment that includes spam scanning and challenge response
	+ With IESG nominee (Bill Fenner) work with Secretariat to install anti-spam measures
* **OMA Liaison**
Geoff Huston  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Meeting to be arranged mid-Feb with new OMA contact
* **Liaison to Global Grid Forum**
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Brian Carpenter has produced draft of common interst activities. GGF to review this draft.
* **Review of ICANN Document : Registry changes**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review ICANN document relating to changes in registry services and procedures relating to technology-related input and role of tech input
* **IEEE / IETF Meeting Jan 04**
Bernard Aboba  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Circulate meeting report to IAB

	+ Publish pointers to documentation on IAB web site
	+ Document the appointment of Bernard Aboba as the IETF’s default liaison to IEEE 802
* **IEEE Liaison**
Leslie Daigle, Bernhard Aboba, Bert Wijnen  

[Dec-03]  

*closed*  

Status: Check on acceptability of liaison coordination role with IESG and IEEE
* **NIST Spam Workshop**
Vern Paxson  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Interest has been expressed by NIST for IAB & ASRG participation in the workshop (http://csrc.nist.gov/spam/)

	+ Patrik Faltstrom will attend the workshop
* **ISOC BoT Selection Process**
Geoff Huston  

[Dec-03]  

*current*  

Status: Commenced process Jan-04

	+ Announce candidate list to IETF-Announce mailer
* **ID / Locator Architectural Consideration**
James Kempf, Bernard Aboba, Eric Rescorla  

[Jan-04]  

*current*  

Status: Propose a format for IAB meeting on this topic at next IETF meeting (open slot, IAB Tech, Joint with IESG)

	+ Draft a 1 page summary of issues
* **NS/EP Communications**
Mike St Johns  

[Jan-04]  

*current*  

Status: Provide response to the National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications RFI concerning the work aready undertaken in the context of the IEPREP WG
* **Review of W3C TAG Report**
Patrik Faltstrom  

[Feb-04]  

*current*  

Status: Review the W3C Technical Architecture Group report and circulate review to IAB


### Documents


* **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  

[draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-02.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[Apr-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) completing IPR text as separate note
	2. (next) Leslie to undertake an IETF Call
* **Internet Architecture and End-to-End**  

[draft-iab-e2e-futures-05.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-e2e-futures-05.txt)
James Kempf, Rob Austein  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Ready

	1. (current) Submission to RFC Editor as IAB Informational RFC
* **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  

[draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-02]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Leslie to revise the draft
* **Transport Controls for VOIP**  

[draft-iab-congestion-02.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-congestion-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, James Kempf  

[Nov-02]  

*RFC Editor*  

Status: RFC Editor Queue

	1. (current) Submission to RFC Editor as IAB Informational (2/2/04)
* **IAB Research Agenda**  

[draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-research-funding-02.txt)
Sally Floyd, Vern Paxson, Ran Atkinson, Mike St Johns, John Crowcroft  

[Jul-02]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) minor revision in response to IETF comment
	2. (next) Submission as IAB Informational
* **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**
Bernard Aboba, James Kempf  

[Mar-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Draft as a 1 page descriptive framework
* **Protocol Models**  

[draft-iab-model-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
Eric Rescorla  

[May-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) Erik to complete a number of sections (-01)
* **Internet Identities**  

 [draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-internet-identities-00d.txt)
Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  

[Jul-03]  

*current*  

Status: Drafting

	1. (current) Document on Internet Identity realms
* **DOS Attacks**  

[draft-iab-dos-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
Mark Handley  

[Sep-03]  

*current*  

Status: Review

	1. (current) draft published
	2. (next) Revise as per comments received
* **AdvComm Report**  

 [draft-iab-advcomm-output-01.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-advcomm-output-01.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Publication

	1. (current) Publish committee report as info RFC
* **Liaison Management**  

 [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
Leslie Daigle  

[Nov-03]  

*current*  

Status: Revision

	1. (current) Revise with comments in conjunction with baker draft





---


These minutes were prepared by Geoff Huston; comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/IABmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---



