
Minutes
 IAB Meeting at IETF 61
-------------------------------


**7 – 12 November 2004**




---



### 1. Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



> 
> #### 1.1 Agenda
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 1. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
> > 2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
> > 3. [Review of Documents](#3)
> > 4. [IAB Liaison Reports](#4)
> > 5. [Updates from IETF Liaisons](#5)
> > 6. [IETF Administrative Restructuring](#6)
> > 7. [IAB Messaging Workshop Outcomes](#7)
> > 8. [IRTF Review](#8)
> > 9. [IPv6 Global Policy Setting](#9)
> > 10. [IIETF Plenary](#10)
> > 11. [Network Management Research Group Review](#11)
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.2 Attendance
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair   
> > > 
> > > Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair   
> > > 
> > > Bernard Aboba   
> > > 
> > > Rob Austein   
> > > 
> > > Patrik Fältstr&oumlm  
> > > 
> > > Sally Floyd   
> > > 
> > > Mark Handley   
> > > 
> > > Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino   
> > > 
> > > Bob Hinden   
> > > 
> > > Geoff Huston   
> > > 
> > > Eric Rescorla   
> > > 
> > > Pete Resnick   
> > > 
> > > Jonathan Rosenberg   
> > > 
> > > Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  
> > > 
> > > Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  
> > > 
> > > Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **Apologies**
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.3 Previous Minutes
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > The minutes of the [October 12 IAB meeting](/documents/iabmins/iabmins.2004-10-12.html) were approved.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 



### 2. Review of Action Items



> 
> (See [Appendix A](#a))
> 
> 
> 



### 3. Review of Documents



> 
> (See [Appendix B](#b))
> 
> 
> 



### 4. IAB Liaison Reports



> 
> 
> **IESG**  
> 
> Rob Austein, Bert Wijnen
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 
> **RFC Editor**  
> 
> Joyce Reynolds
> 
> 
> * An RFC Editor’s office has been set up for IETF61. The RFC Editor staff are engaged in the Newtrack Working Group Design Team.
> 
> 
> 
> **IRTF**  
> 
> Vern Paxson
> 
> 
> * The Services Management Research Group has concluded.
> * The Authentication Authorization Accounting Architecture Research Group has concluded.
> * There will be discussion at IETF61 on whether it is time to close the Group Security Research Group.
> 
> 
> 
> **ISOC**  
> 
> Lynn St Amour
> 
> 
> * The Board of Trustees are holding an open board meeting on the 12th and 13th November at the IETF61 venue.
> * ISOC has approved increased funding for the RFC Editor function for 2004.
> 
> 
> 



### 5. Updates from IETF Liaisons



> 
> 
> **GGF**  
> 
> Brian Carpenter
> 
> 
> * The main concern recently has not been specific to GGF/IETF liaison, but rather the overlapping interests in the network management area of IETF, GGF, DMTF, OASIS, etc. At the moment a multiparty discussion is underway, with the IETF contact being Bert Wijnen. There are issues around usage of XML dialects, information models, potential use of web services, and general mismatch between work in the various bodies.
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
>  The only specific issue I’m aware of, which seems to be chronic, is that the GridFTP extensions to FTP, developed in the GGF, have not been reviewed in the IETF. Other direct GGF/IETF overlaps seem to be under control at WG level.
> 
> 
> 
> **IEEE 802**  
> 
> Bernard Aboba
> 
> 
> * – There is some overlap between work undertaken in the IETF Benchmarking Methodology WG and 802.11 work, where a WG document that overlaps with an 802.11 T document. There appears at this point to be good arguments in bot the IETF and 802 to support continued work in this area. At this stage it is unclear how this will be resolved.
> 
> 
> 



### 6. IETF Administrative Restructuring



> 
>  The IAB met in joint session with the IESG to consider the current status of the IETF Administrative Restructuring activity. The current status of this activity is that the IAB and IESG have published a joint recommendation to pursue a “Scenario O” based approach for IETF administrative restructuring (  
> 
> [draft-iab-iesg-adminrest-rec](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-adminrest-rec-00.txt)). The current working document for the support activity is  
> 
> [draft-wasserman-iasa-bcp](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-wasserman-iasa-bcp-00.txt). Further material is at http://www.alvestrand.no/ietf/adminrest/
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB and IESG believes that there is community consensus for moving the administrative activity forward as an ISOC activity, as described in the IASA document, and that the next steps are to proceed with transition to IASA model.
> 
> 
>  The next steps are for the IETF Chair to select documents editors for the IASA document, with the objective of publishing the next revision of this document as draft-ietf-iasa-bcp. Community and legal and organization review will be undertaken, with the drafting work expected to be complete by the start of December, at which time the document will be IETF Last Called. Formal IESG consideration of the document is anticipated or early January.
> 
> 
>  The IASA Transition Team activity will commence in late November, and the current process includes ISOC, the IAB and IESG each selecting one transition team member. This transition team is to refine the structure of the IASA and define priorities for the preparation of out-sourcing arrangements, as well as commencing the process of selection of the IETF Administrative Director (IAD). A sub-committee of Allison Mankin, Geoff Huston, Bob Hinden and Eric Rescorla was tasked to coordinate the candidate nominations for this team.
> 
> 
>  Further steps are to seat the initial oversight committee in early 2005, hire the director position and finalize contracts by mid-2005.
> 
> 
> 



### 7. IAB Messaging Workshop Outcomes



> 
>  The IAB messaging workshop was reported as an activity with mixed outcomes. The IAB discussed the level of expectation setting for such workshops, and recognized the increasing level of expectation that such workshops were anticipated to make significant steps in terms of the IETF’s approach to the work domain under study.
> 
> 
>  Future workshops would need to carefully consider their objectives in the light of the limitations of the workshop format. The IAB noted that one approach was to concentrate less in generation of position papers in advance of the workshop and concentrate preparation efforts more in the are of session leadership and presentations that generated thoughtful discussion and productive interaction.
> 
> 
> 



### 8. IRTF Review



> 
>  The IAB further considered the role and purpose of the IRTF as part of its review. The IAB discussed a formulation of the goals of the IRTF as follows:
> 
> 
>  Goals for IRTF research
> 
> 
> * RGs as environments for tossing ideas around with minimal constraints
> * some RGs might focus on analysis (operational testing, protocol interoperability testing, etc)
> * groups might be formed quite independently of any work that’s current in the IETF
> * groups might be open or closed (still)
> * groups might be long-term (ongoing) or short-term (specific goal)
> 
> 
> 
>  Goals for IRTF with respect to IETF work
> 
> 
> * might want to be able to define a cleaner API between some IETF work and some (not all) RG’s, when there is an IETF problem that could be informed by more research and there is an RG that’s willing/able/appropriate to take it on
> * design-team-like relationship
> * agreement on deliverable and (some notion of) timeframe
> 
> 
> 
>  Goals for IRTF as a body of work efforts
> 
> 
> * RGs should be non-blocking — one RG’s work should not (always) preclude the possibility of creating another WG on a related topic (though this requires coordination!)
> * output of RGs should be accepted as first-class work — e.g., a new RFC track for IRTF output?
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB decided to further expand these goals into an IAB report on the role of the IRTF within the overall structure of the IETF, and subsequently circulate this document for wider community review.
> 
> 
> 



### 9. IPv6 Global Policy Setting



> 
>  The IAB reviewed the situation with respect to policy setting in the area of administration of the IPv6 address distribution function.
> 
> 
>  The IAB considered the preparation of a statement that described the IAB’s perspective on the overall process of determination of an address architecture and the subsequent determination of policies for the address distribution function. In addition, the statement should note that the IAB looks forward to continuing the dialogue with the Regional Internet Registries in the ongoing refinement of best technical practices in this activity and their implications for allocation policies.
> 
> 
> 



### 10. IETF Plenary



> 
>  Presentations in the IETF61 plenary are archived by the IAB at  
> 
> [http://www.iab.org/documents/docs/iab-plenaries/2004-11-washington/](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/docs2004/2004-11-washington/)
> 
> 
> 
> 



### 11. Network Management Research Group Review



> 
>  The IAB, assisted by Jürgen Schönwalder, chair of the NMRG, reviewed the status of the NMRG. Jüergen’s presentation to the IAB is at:  
> 
> [http://www.iab.org/documents/docs/iab-plenaries/2004-11-washington/nmrg-review.pdf](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/nmrg-review.pdf)
> 
> 
> 
>  The NMRG offers research participants extended time to present and discuss their thinking and work. This has resulted in academic sector participation in the RG. The measurements of the RG’s impact was discussed, and while the RG monthly reports did create a discipline of progress reporting, but it did not embrace the common metrics of academic and research performance related to published papers and conference participation.
> 
> 
>  Current research topics in this domain include that of the continued evolution of SNMP, the potential use of web services as the means of interaction between the management system and the network element. The IAB also contrasted the approach of element management to system or network service outcome management as an overall approach to the topic of network management.
> 
> 
> 
> 




---


### Appendix A


### IAB Actions


* **IDN**
	Geoff Huston  
	
	Feb-03  
	
	Actions:
	
		- Coordinate preparatory work for a possible IAB ‘virtual’ workshop on IDN and related matters
		- Compile a list of questions to be addressed in the context of a workshop
		- Leslie, Patrik and John Klensin to review


- **IAB Messaging Workshop**



  

 Pete Resnick  

 [Apr-04]  

 Actions:
+ Archive of workshop material to be created
+ Workshop report to be prepared


- **IPv6 Policies**



  

 IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

 [May-04]  

 Actions:
+ Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int decrecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format
+ ip6.int recommendation passed to IAB, draft-huston-ip6-int published. BCP path proposed.
+ IANA V6 registry recommendation passed to IAB ([draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry-00.txt))
+ IANA to RIR minimum allocation size. Advice to be prepared and passed to the IAB.


- **DNS Ops TLD Operation**



  

 Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.
+ Geoff to propose a WG action to the WG mailing list on the topic of operational considerations for DNS Top Level Domains


- **IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations**



  

 Bob Hinden, Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing enviironment with scoped and global addresses
+ Bob to take a first pass and outline the considerations


- **IPv6 Centrally Assigned ULAs**



  

 Leslie Daigle  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review draft and IPv6 WG considerations regarding IANA Considerations for this proposal
+ Leslie has posted a preliminary report for IAB review.
+ Propose the preparation of a document that would meet the requirements as described in the CAULA draft. .


- **IRTF Review**



  

 Mark Handley, Sally Floyd  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review initial notes and propose IAB document on the role of the IRTF




---


### Appendix B


### IAB Documents



> 
> * **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  
> 
> [draft-iab-auth-mech](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt)
> 	Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	Apr-02
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | Editor Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revise as per comments from IETF call |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  
> 
> [draft-iab-char-rep](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
> 	 Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-02]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | 
> 	Hold |
> 	| Current Action:  | Part of IDN workshop action |
> 
> 
> * **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Mar-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms. |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Review |
> 
> 
> * **Protocol Models**  
> 
> [draft-iab-model](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
> 	 Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	 [May-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revision |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internet Identities**  
> 
> [draft-iab-identities](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Jul-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Incorporate review comments. Reflect considerations of inter-relations of identities at different layers and impacts of making changes based on a single layer’s requirements. That revision will, in turn, reflect on the IP/locator split. |
> 
> 
> * **DOS Attacks**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dos](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
> 	 Mark Handley  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Incorporate review comments |
> 
> 
> * **Liaison Management**  
> 
> [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
> 	Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  IETF Call for Input |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF Call for Input (with
> 	[draft-baker-liaison-statements](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-liaison-statments-00.txt)) |
> 
> 
> * **Untangling Activeware**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [Apr-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | IAB consideration on the topic of the interaction of NATs, ALGs, Firewals, Application frameworks and IPv6 transition mechanisms. Consider ways of devolving this in a manner that allows productive study of the interactions and inter-dependencies at play here. |
> 	| Next Step: | Draft an abstract and outlines for further IAB review |
> 
> 
> * **Top Level Domain Issues**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-assumptions](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [May-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Drafting |
> 	| Current Action:  | draft publication |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **Use of DNS RRs in Mail Applications**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-choices](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications**  
> 
> [draft-iab-link-indications](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-00.txt)
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Drafting |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **OMA Liaison Agreement**  
> 
> [draft-iab-oma-liaison](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-oma-liaison-00.txt)
> 	 Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  RFC Editor |
> 	| Current Action:  | Submitted to RFC Editor 8-Sep |
> 
> 
> 




---


 These minutes were prepared by the IAB Executive Director, Geoff Huston. Any comments should be sent to  

[iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)





---


