
Minutes 
IAB Business Meeting
-----------------------------


**November 10, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall and Agenda Bash](#1)
2. [Regular Reports](#2)
3. [Bad Traffic Workshop — go/no go, planning update](#3)
4. [IAB Ad Hoc charters/web page — ready for pub?](#4)
5. [Review of ICANN statement wrt .arpa, and follow up if necessary](#5)
6. [Finalize selection of tech topic for Nov 23](#6)
7. [ICANN BoT NomCom appointment — it’s that time of year](#7)
8. [Kicking off the ISOC BoT appointment process](#8)
9. [Any final decisions re. IANA TEREDO assignment](#9)
10. [MFA liaison](#10)
11. [Callhome and NAT considerations document](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fälström  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG


### 2. Regular Reports


The IAB briefly discussed the frequency of reports. The IAB decided that reports should be monthly, preferably in the first meeting of the month.


#### RFC Editor Report Joyce K. Reynolds


* We have an RFC Editor office set up at the Vancouver IETF.
* The RFC Editor presented its tutorial Monday afternoon in Vancouver.
* We presented our traditional RFC Editor report during Wednesday night’s plenary.
* Improved/rationalized NORM REF holds.
* AUTH 48 problems continue to crop up.
* The TLG met on Tuesday to discuss RFC Editor operations.
* The RFC Editor Editorial Board held a meeting on Wednesday of the IETF.


#### IRTF Report Aaron Falk


* Bob Braden has retired as E2E RG chair. He will continue to run the end2end-interest mail list and be on the IRSG. RG interim chairs are (the) Karen Sollins (MIT) and Craig Partridge (BBN). They are expected to become permanent.
* The Internet Congestion Control Research Group has been chartered. Chairs are S. Keshav (University of Waterloo) and Mark Handley (University College, London).


#### IAB IDN Ad Hoc Committee Report Patrik Fälström


New draft report created and passed to John Klensin for review / further hacking.


People that want a copy, please let Patrik know.


#### IAB IPv6 Ad Hoc Committee Report Kurtis Erik Lindqvist


The ad-hoc WG have worked with the RIRs through the NRO to develop the I-D posted yesterday to the IAB list for discussion. The I-D outlines how IANA is to make special use protocol allocations out of the 2001:0000::/29 – 2001:01F8::/29 block as specified by RFC2928. This I-D is proposed to be used as baseline for the IAB reply to the IANA request.


In addition the ad-hoc group met for a meeting on Tuesday and reviewed other issues that would be of interest to bring to the IAB or push in other directions. These included


* Making sure the HD-ratio recommendation of 0.94 as threshold instead of 0.8 at AfriNIC and LACNIC. Tomas Narten agreed to contact Hans-Peter Holen as ASO chair. The ASO has resources and procedures for presenting these proposals at all RIRs even if non of the authors are attending.
* Global IANA to RIR allocation policy change. The proposal to allocate IPv6 blocks of /12 to the RIRs from the IANA pool is going around the RIR regions. The IAB should make sure it will get consulted by the ASO before this is brought to the ICANN board. Tomas and Kurtis to talk to Hans-Peter Holen as ASO chair (Tomas as ICANN liason).
* RFC3177bis. Tomas has been working on an update and will resubmitt. Not really an IAB item but the reference to /48 for end- sites should be removed (as this is not something that the RIRs or the IETF can enforece or really have nothing to do with).
* 6to4 in-addr specification. Draft by Geoff. Was decided to take to DNSOP, and ask them to LC it. Done.
* Bob told about the IAB document on IPv6 that is on his “document list” from IAB. ad-hoc group said we would be willing to contribute if needed.


### 3. Bad Traffic Workshop — go/no go, planning update


The IAB had a lengthy discussion of its proposed bad traffic workshop. The IAB discussed possible outputs from the workshop and it was generally agreed that although other outputs are possible, an RFC report is traditional and desirable. It was noted that the current proposal is ambivalent in focus (economic vs technical). The IAB gravitated towards focusing the workshop on exposing the operational reality out there in networks. The IAB discussed the various upsides and challenges of open versus invitational participation in the workshop. The IAB decided it was better suited to organizing an invitational workshop on this topic. The IAB agreed that having the workshop coincident with the next NANOG would help with participation, because it was important to make it easy for people to participate. Rich agreed to revise the proposal/description.


### 4. IAB Ad Hoc charters/web page — ready for pub?


The IAB approved charters of its ad hoc committees, for publication on its web site. [See [http://www.iab.org/about/adhocs/index.html](/about/adhocs/).]


### 5. Review of ICANN statement wrt .arpa, and follow up if necessary


The IAB noted that RFC 3172 specifies management guidelines for the .arpa domain. The IAB postponed further discussion of this issue to its next business meeting.


### 6. Finalize selection of tech topic for Nov 23


The IAB briefly discussed three possible topics for its November 23 tech chat: content for the proposed workshop, the layer above DNS, and the growing use of DHT technology. The IAB agreed to discuss the layer above DNS, with Patrik and Leslie leading the discussion.


### 7. ICANN BoT NomCom appointment — it’s that time of year


Rich briefly described his experience on the ICANN nominating committee. Rich felt his lack of some prior ICANN experience. Because Vint Cerf is leaving the ICANN board (due to term limit), this is an important year for IETF input. The IAB discussed a couple people who might be sensible candidates and Leslie took the action of contacting the most promising.


### 8. Kicking off the ISOC BoT appointment process


Leslie noted that this IAB will create a pool of candidates from which the next IAB will select. We will soon put out information on how people can volunteer to be candidates.


### 9. Any final decisions re. IANA TEREDO assignment


Kurtis reported that the IPv6 ad hoc committee has a draft (circulated to the IAB) specifying how the assignment should be handled. The NRO has until Monday to comment, then the draft will be submitted as an AD-sponsored individual submission [see  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-huston-ipv6-iana-specials-00.txt>], then the IAB can send a letter asking IANA to make assignments following the draft. The IAB approved this course of action but Leslie noted that the ad hoc committee, which does not have formal standing, can not formally consult with the NRO.


### 10. MFA liaison


The IAB discussion focused on one candidate. The IAB discussed whether its selection process for liaisons was adaquately open; for example, did the community know that a search was under way? Loa reported that he has talked with all credible candidates, roughly ten people. The IAB noted that a process-heavy selection process would unduly inflate the importance of the position. Leslie and Loa have the action of discussion this selection with the relevant AD and WG chairs.


### 11. Callhome and NAT considerations document


This agenda item was deferred for lack of time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


