
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**December 7, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of specific actions](#2)
3. [Review of specific documents](#3)
4. [ICANN NomCom appointment](#4)
5. [ISOC BoT appointment](#5)
6. [Update on .ARPA management/recent ICANN agreements](#6)
7. [Proposed IPv6 work](#7)
8. [Workshop plan](#8)
9. [Upcoming IAB meetings](#9)
10. [Monthly meeting plans](#10)
11. [AOB](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

David Meyer  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


Minutes from November 2 were accepted.


The IAB Chair noted that all IAB members have the responsibility of reading the draft minutes.


### 2. Review of specific actions


#### MFA Liaison


The IAB briefly discussed two candidates for MFA liaison manager and choose one. Leslie will poll the IESG in email for any final objections before making an announcement.


### 3. Review of specific documents


#### draft-iab-liaison-guidelines-00.txt


The IAB decided to release Loa’s revised draft as -01. Bernard volunteered to help by reading the draft for spelling and grammer.


#### draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-04.txt


The IAB agreed that Bernard should incorporate Brian’s most recent comments and release an -05 draft. Brian noted that the IESG members have made no further comments so he doesn’t see a need to put the draft on the IESG agenda again. Leslie noted the draft will be published as Informational so it can go straight from the IAB to the RFC Editor. As it is a statement between the IETF and IEEE 802, we will forego the call for input from the community. She will ask the RFC Editor to publish the -05 draft. Bernard noted that the IEEE understands that it will take some time for the draft to get through the RFC Editor queue.


### 4. ICANN NomCom appointment


The IAB discussed two candidates for the IETF position on the ICANN nominating committee. Among other factors, the IAB considered the degree and nature of the candidates’ experience with ICANN and the likelihood that the candidates would advocate change in the ICANN board. Consensus emerged for John Klensin; Leslie took the action of informing John.


### 5. ISOC BoT appointment


Rich volunteered to create a timeline for the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC board. Leslie will supply last year’s timeline as a starting point. Brian noted that the IAB needs to make an IAOC selection next year and suggested it wasn’t too soon to put it in our calendar for a similar process.


### 6. Update on .ARPA management/recent ICANN agreements


The IAB discussed its response to the recent agreement between ICANN and Verisign on root server management, which does not acknowledge the IAB’s role in managing the .arpa domain (see RFC 3172). The IAB agreed that it is important for it to periodically reaffirm its role with respect to .arpa. The IAB agreed to send a letter to ICANN/IANA, making three points. First, asking ICANN to include in its plan of action a note to the IAB proposing the specific transition plan. Second, some reflection of that step clearly and formally to the community, to correct the misperception of the current agreement. Third, a proposal for how changes to the .arpa zone should be requested and authorized.


### 7. Proposed IPv6 work


Following discussions in Vancouver, the IAB agreed to accept three proposed documents as work items. First, a document on gaps and missing pieces in IPv6, owned by Dave Meyer and initial draft due Feb 1. Second, a document on IPv6 multihoming issues: the current practice (PI), issues of continuing current practice, and the potential benefit from SHIM6, owned by Bob Hinden and initial draft due Jan 3. This will pull together existing material from the multi6 WG. Third, a document on GSE history: what’s GSE, what happened to it, and open issues, owned by Lixia Zhang and initial draft due Jan 3. This will reprise some material from an old unpublished draft analysis of GSE.


### 8. Workshop plan


Rich reported that he’s heard from one hotel in Dallas that has availability but otherwise not made progress on the workshop proposal or invitee list. Leslie noted that with only two months to the proposed date, the IAB needs a believable action plan for refining the description and creating an invitation list. Leslie broke the work down into 5 tasks with a volunteer for each: first, revising the workshop description (Eric); second, finalizing the invitee list (Pete); third, drafting the invitation email (Bernard); fourth, arranging the logistics (Rich); and fifth, organizing the sessions and presenters (Lixia). Bob noted that Nokia has a facility in Irving TX that might be suitable. Leslie noted that this will require lots of work on the mailing list in the next two weeks so we can ratify decisions in our next meeting, on Dec 21.


### 9. Upcoming IAB meetings


The IAB decided to cancel its December 28 technical chat, because not enough people would be available. The IAB agreed to discuss DHTs (Distributed Hash Tables) in its January tech chat. Lixia, Jonathan, Eric, and Pekka will figure out the details and report back in our Dec 21 meeting.


### 10. Monthly meeting plans


The IAB discussed using a wiki or bug-tracker on its private web site to let people update status of actions and documents at will. The IAB could review the status in its business meetings and snapshot the status monthly for its minutes. Eric volunteered to investigate bug-tracker software. Rich will give Eric admin access to the private web site for his investigation.


### 11. AOB


The IAB discussed what it should be doing to prepare for its presentations at the upcoming APRICOT meeting in Perth. The IAB has two slots, for a BoF on IPv6 multihoming (much like the recent NANOG BOF) and for an overview of the IETF. Dave is handling the first and Patrik the second.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


