
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**November 2, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
3. [Review of Documents](#3)
4. [Regular Reports](#4)
5. [Review of ICANN statement wrt .arpa](#5)
6. [Finalizing IETF64 meetings](#6)
7. [AOB](#7)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Bob Hinden  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG



**Absent**  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lixia Zhang


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


Minutes from October were accepted.


### 2. Review of Action Items



(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents



(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Regular Reports


None received. This agenda item moved to our business meeting during IETF next week.


### 5. Review of ICANN statement wrt .arpa


Nobody had done the background reading to have an informed discussion, so we moved this agenda item to our business meeting next week.


### 6. Finalizing IETF64 meetings


The IAB discussed the idea of debating “complexity” Sunday afternoon, but a critical mass in favor of the idea did not emerge. Leslie banned pointless further discussion of the ill-defined term. Instead, we will spend the time in a discussion of 8+8/GSE/shim6. Bob Hinden volunteered to present background material on 8+8/GSE. We will also review our three focus area and the architectural issues web page.


The IAB had a lively discussion of plenary formats. The consensus was that the format in Paris did not work very well; for example, the IAB members contended with the audience for mike time. Leslie is considering a longer chair report with more detail on the IAB’s activities, perhaps using Dave’s slides from NANOG 35 ( [http://www.iab.org/documents/open-mtgs/2005-10-23-iab.pdf](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/2005-10-23-iab.pdf)) as a starting point. The IAB members will be up on stage for the report and followup questions, then join the audience for architectural discussion.


### 7. AOB


The IAB discussed a request from ICANN/IANA to approve a nameserver change for e164.arpa. The IAB approved the request; Leslie will reply to ICANN/IANA.




---


### Appendix AIAB Actions


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


Pekka Nikander, Rich Draves, Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Hold an IAB workshop on mechanisms for dealing with bad traffic.  

New Status: No progress yet, but RSN.


#### Charters for IAB Ad Hoc Committees


Rich Draves  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Publish charters for the IAB ad hoc committees. Start by pulling together existing charter text for IAB review.  

New Status: First draft finished, revisions needed.


#### Public Interactive Space


Rich Draves  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Investigate whether the IAB’s private web server can also support a public interactive space.  

New Status: This appears to be possible.


#### MPLS Turf Carving


Loa Andersson  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: (Assuming this is an IAB action.) Tackle the cooperation (and lack thereof) of the organizations involved in G/MPLS technology. Get leadership of these organizations together for a meeting to talk about objectives and come to a common understanding of who’s responsible for what.  

New Status: The IAB decided that it does not need to be involved in every step of every relationship. This will remain Loa’s action and not an official IAB action. Loa can call for WG consensus as needed.


#### MFA Liaison


Loa Andersson  

Initiated: September 2005  

Goal: Find a new MFA liaison, since Andy Malis is now President of the MFA Forum.  

New Status: I’m still working my way through the list of names I got from Andy, so far no further development.


#### Scope of IETF Architecture


Dave Meyer, Allison Mankin  

Initiated: August 2005  

Goal: Create an effort to develop a statement of the scope of the IETF architecture.  

Old Status: No progress.  

New Status: No progress. The IAB will discuss this with the IESG in Vancouver to better understand this action item, which originated in a request from the IESG.


#### IESG Concerns Regarding RFC Processing


Brian Carpenter, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Resolve concerns regarding lack of visibility into RFC Editor state, copy-editing, and excessive author changes in AUTH48. Gather feedback from community.  

Old Status: The experiment continues. The techspec BOF is scheduled and draft-mankin-pub-req-00.txt is published.  

New Status: -01 document is now published. techspec BOF is scheduled.


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Fältström, Pete Resnick  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names. Old Status: Summary proposed by Leslie and Patrik and sent to IAB list. The summary divides the problem between what the IETF can do and what ICANN can do.  

New Status: Summary discussed with individuals in the IAB-IDN committee, and I hope to be able to write up the result after IETF week.


#### Architectural Issues


Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages.  

Old Status: Initial draft for new organisation ready. Waiting for comments on that from both IAB and IESG. Continuing to fill in actual data. First revision of data pages expected in late November/ December.  

New status: Pekka continuing to process feedback and fill in actual data. First revision of some data pages expected in late November/ December. Rich Draves looking at hosting options, considering organising the information in WikiPedia style.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Leslie Daigle, Brian Carpenter  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Old Status: Was discussed on call with RFC Editor team on October 7 and we believe they will now look at the issue and discuss with Jorge Contreras.  

New Status: As far as is known, no status change. We should revisit in Vancouver business meeting.


#### Research Note document proposal


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, and Leslie Daigle, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.  

Old Status: no progress  

New Status: The IAB agreed to close this action item.


#### Proposed Congestion Control RG


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: January 2005  

Goal: Consult with ADs on the potential role for such a RG  

Old Status: Aaron is contacting some potential co-chairs.  

New Status: Done, Aaron has circulated charter to kick off usual process.




---


### Appendix BDocuments


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-04.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Old Status: New version submitted. Some comments received from Pekka. BRC says he’s going to send comments. Waiting on that.  

New Status: Has comments from Pekka, there’s been some discussion. Still waiting for comments from Brian, but won’t wait much longer.


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt> (expired)  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Old Status: No progress  

New Status: No progress. Haven’t given up.


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-03.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Old Status: New version submitted. Ready for IETF Call For Input?  

New Status: IETF Call for Input in progress.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt> (expired)  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Old Status: Update in progress, targeting for Vancouver. The IAB gave Jonathan permission to revise and submit a revision at the last minute.  

New Status: Unfortunately, it didnt get done. Day job plus some family issues have taken a lot of my IETF/IAB time away over the last few weeks.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-messaging-report-00.txt>  

Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Old Status: The IAB agreed to submit this to the RFC Editor.  

New Status: -01 draft is ready to ship to RFC Editor.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-03.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

Old Status: In RFC Editor queue.  

New Status: Still in RFC Editor queue.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: No progress. I discussed with Pekka what is to be added (how to register rr types). We (IAB) must ignore some people’s complaints. The IAB agreed to add a note to the document acknowledging the concerns.  

New Status: I have a -03 version, and you saw the changes. I got VERY good comments from Pekka om my ugly english, so a new 03 version should be visible shortly.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-03.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: Comments are being received on -03. Revision in progress.  

New Status: Revision in progress.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-03.txt>  

Bert Wijnen  

Initiated: December 2004  

Old Status: Approved for publication by the IESG.  

New Status: In RFC Editor queue.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

Initiated: December 2004  

Old Status: The document is ready to send to the RFC Editor. Bert will send the IESG a pointer for heads-up and courtesy review.  

New Status: No comments from IESG so Leslie/Aaron will figure out who will send it to the RFC Editor.


#### IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-02.txt>  

Loa Andersson, Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2005  

Old Status: IESG review has been completed. Discussion on Int-Area mailing list revealed an issue relating to use of the term “member” as applied to the IETF. Scott Bradner recommends substituting “participant”. -02 draft submitted, some gremlins found (inappropriate characters). Next step: review by IEEE 802 ExComm. The IAB agreed that the document does not need wider IETF review. We will take IEEE changes and then have IAB/IESG review again.  

New Status: An -02 revision was submitted to address some confusion about use of the term “members” to refer to IETF participants. On advice of Scott Bradner, the term “members” has been changed to “participants” throughout the document wherever the term refers to the IETF. According to Paul Congdon, Vice Chair of IEEE 802.1, some comments have been received from the IEEE 802 ExComm. Paul will package these up and send them on.


#### Remaining Issues with the Core IPv6 Protocols


(waiting for -00 draft)  

David Meyer  

Initiated: July 2005  

Old Status: This one is slow going, but I’ll up the priorty. Bob and Kurtis are helping out. Dave agreed to summarize the purpose of the document to the IAB list.  

New Status: Leslie encouraged everyone to make this is a high priority. During the discussion, the IAB also considered a possible document discussing/documenting 8+8/GSE. The IAB agreed to avoid derailing or distracting from shim6. The IAB agreed to consider this further in Vancouver.


#### Mobility Principles (working name)


(waiting for -00 draft)  

Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: August 2005  

Old Status: No change. [Starting to put together on next week, hope to hit -00 deadline as a personal draft.]  

New Status: Missed -00 deadline, currently on hold [due to a day job override]. Planning to continue after Vancouver.


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-guidelines-00.txt>  

Loa Andersson  

Initiated: October 2005  

Old Status: draft-andersson-iab-liaison-guidelines-00 adopted as an IAB document.  

New Status: No change. We need a round of comments on this doc, should we ask on any particular list? The IAB suggested as next steps, to incorporate Eric’s comments, revise in response to discussion with Brian and Leslie. More internal review, then review with the ietf-liaison list.


#### Secure Autoconfiguration


<http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-config-secure-00.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: October 2005  

Old Status: A first draft has been prepared. I’ve received comments from Pekka. Should this document be subsumed into a larger “bulge at the waist” document, or should it become an IAB document on its own? The IAB decided to review the document prior to deciding if it should be an IAB document. In the meantime, Bernard should submit it as an individual draft. Eric volunteered to review it for the IAB.  

New Status: Discussion ongoing as to what the document is/should be, and whether we should make it an IAB document or drop it. Any opinions? The IAB asked Bernard to try formulating the document as more of an issues document instead of a solutions document, explaining why it is difficult to achieve secure autoconfiguration.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


