
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**September 14, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
3. [Review of Documents](#3)
4. [Regular Reports](#4)
5. [MFA Forum liaison](#5)
6. [IAOC selection document](#6)
7. [IAB liaison to the NomCom](#7)
8. [IAB architecture-discuss list](#8)
9. [Workshop plan](#9)
10. [Review of IAB timeline/plan](#10)
11. [AOB](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang


**Absent**  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Patrik Fältström


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


Minutes from August were accepted.


### 2. Review of Action Items


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Regular Reports


The following reports from liaisons and ad-hoc committees were submitted to the IAB.


#### ISOC 
Lynn St. Amour


* ISOC’s Board meeting is Saturday and Sunday October 29th and 30th and will be held in the Reston, Virginia area adjacent to Dulles Airport. Our Board meetings are open and all are invited.
* For information – WSIS PrepCom3 will be held in Geneva from September 19th – 30th. ISOC’s comments on the WGIG Report on Internet Governance can be found at:  

<http://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/wsis/wgigcomments.shtml>


#### RFC Editor 
Joyce Reynolds


* The RFC Editor presented its tutorial on, “RFC Editor’s Training”, at the Paris IETF. We also presented our traditional RFC Editor report during the plenary sessions.
* We are continuing to work with Bill Fenner on XML –> RFC issues in response to community questions and critiques, and the IESG Datatracker compared with RFC-Editor Queue.
* We (JKRey, Braden, Falk) are teaming with IESG members (Bert Wijnen, Allison Mankin), and IAB Chair, Leslie Daigle in a coordinated “experiment” of early copy-editing of WG drafts.
* The RFC Editor is pleased to announce two new members of our publication team.
Eric Nord has joined us as a full time editorial assistant. Eric holds a B.A. in Political Studies from Pitzer College in Claremont, California. He has spent the last six months with our project as a temporary copy editor. His tasks have included copy editing RFCs-to-be for grammar, spelling, style, and formatting. Eric has worked closely with our editorial staff to streamline the editing process. He has contributed to the development of an in-house editorial manual for the staff. With this background, we expect Eric to continue to contribute to our on-going RFC publication efforts, and the Internet community.


Also, Kate Peterson has joined us as a temporary part-time copy editor/proof reader.


#### IRTF 
Aaron Falk


The October issue of ACM Computer Communications Review (CCR) will contain a note to the research community on why networking researchers should continue to be involved in the IETF (mostly via participation in the IRTF). I’ve placed a copy of the article online at http://www.irtf.org/pub/irtf-iab-ccr.pdf. Many thanks to Lixia and Pekka for their assistance.


Evaluating RG charter proposal and drafts from XCAST community.


No progress on co-chair for Congestion Control Research Group.


#### IESG 
Bert Wijnen


* The IESG has appointed 2 scribes (recording secretaries) to take narrative minutes of the IESG meetings/telechats. This is an experiment that runs for 6 months. The selected scribes (selected from a list of volunteers) are Marshall Eubanks and Nick Staff.
* The IESG is discussing if it makes sense to create a new AREA: Real Time Applications and Infrastructure Area (RAI). The IESG hopes to decide soon, so they can timely inform the new NomCom about it.
* The IESG also discussed the possible addition of a 3rd INT AD, but there seemed to be no consensus to do so because it might justify to add extra ADs in other areas as well, and so the IESG potentially would grow too large.
* The IESG has also discussed if the (current) AD job is a part-time job or if it requires too much time and effort to really consider it a part-time job. Everyone agreed that ideally it should be possible to do the AD-task as a part-time job, but the practical situation seems to be that most ADs do spend 30+ hours per week on the task and that long (even a few weeks) absences are problematic. Given the current situation, most IESG members do not believe that this will change in the next year or two. So we intend to inform the NomCOm about that time-commitment.
* The IESG has received 2 appeals that it intends to discuss them in the week of Sept 13th.


#### ATM Forum 
Andy Malis


The merger between the ATM Forum and the MPLS and Frame Relay Alliance completed towards the end of July. The new organization is now known as the “MFA Forum”, standing for MPLS, Frame Relay, and ATM. More information regarding the Forum is available at [www.mfaforum.org](http://www.mfaforum.org).


#### IEEE 802 
Bernard Aboba


(See [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ieee/2005-08-ieee802-liaison-report.html](/liaisons/ieee/2005-08-ieee802-liaison-report/).)


#### ITU-T NGN 
Scott Brim


(See [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ngn/2005-09-10.html](/liaisons/ngn/2005-09-10/). Leslie took the action of circulating this report to the IAB.)


#### W3C 
Leslie Daigle


W3C/IETF telcon 15 Aug 2005


Attendees


Dan Connolly (chair), Tim Berners-Lee, John C Klensin, Leslie Daigle, Ted Hardie, Scott Hollenbeck, Philippe Le Hégaret (scribe).


Agenda


1. Convene, take roll, recruit scribe, review agenda
2. introducing Philippe Le Hégaret
3. registration of mime types from standards
4. P3P header registry
5. next meeting
6. file: URI scheme draft
7. mailng list notices, archives in the W3C and IETF
8. Remote UI BoF and Synchronized XML DOMs
9. Calendaring and Scheduling Standards Simplification (calsify), time zone registry
10. URI guidelines last call extended to 31 Aug
11. syndication trends: RSS/Atom
12. GEOPRIV, privacy and VoIP


full text: [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/w3c/2005-08-15.html](/liaisons/w3c/2005-08-15/)


#### IAB ad-hoc committee on ISOC technical communication 
Leslie Daigle


Mailing list created for discussion; no discussion yet. Pete & Lynn will meet to decide what to do next.


#### IAB ad-hoc committee on IPv6 
Kurtis Lindqvist


IANA registries update in RFC editor queue. Geoff presented HD ratio update talk. HD ratio good reception. Less positive response on /48 change. No progress on updating the charter. Will get last draft from Thomas. Discussion in group of Teredo prefix. Want to review by NRO and RIR.


#### IAB ad-hoc committee on IDN 
Patrik Fältström


No report.


### 5. MFA Forum liaison


Our current liaison, Andy Malis, is now President of the MFA Forum. The IAB decided that it would be best to choose another liaison. The IAB discussed a potential candidate. The IAB will send a letter to the IESG explaining why the IAB thinks the liaison should be changed and suggesting the potential candidate.


### 6. IAOC selection document


The IAB discussed [draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-02.txt](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-02.txt). The IAB confirmed that it supports the document.


### 7. IAB liaison to the NomCom


Four IAB members volunteered to serve as liaison to the NomCom.


Eric summarized the job as participating in many conference calls and candidate interviews.


The liaison should convey to the NomCom what documentation the IAB wants regarding the IESG slate. (See [http://www.iab.org/documents/docs/2003-07-23-nomcom.html](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2003/2003-07-23-nomcom).)


The liaison discussion in the meeting was inconclusive and the IAB agreed to discuss further on its mailing list.


### 8. IAB architecture-discuss list


The IAB discussed creating a new mailing list for architecture discussion, versus using an existing list like the end-to-end list.


The IAB agreed to create an open mailing list architecture-discuss@ietf.org. It is meant to be an open discussion forum for all long and/or wide range architectural concerns related to the Internet Architecture.


Pekka, Dave, Lixia, and Pete volunteered to participate in the list. The IAB supported the idea of making mobility a discussion topic.


### 9. Workshop plan


The IAB discussed several possible workshop topics, including IPv6, multihoming, mobility, and “bad traffic” (possibly with an economics emphasis). The IAB considered whether some of these topics had substantial research components and a meeting on the topic would be better sponsored by a research organization. The IAB discussed the possibility of holding BOFs or workshops in conjunction with events attended by the operations community. Leslie noted that realistically the IAB can hold one workshop per year. The IAB took the action of giving Pekka feedback (in the next few weeks) on a proposal for a “bad traffic” workshop.


### 10. Review of IAB timeline/plan


The IAB briefly discussed a spreadsheet of IAB actions and timelines that Leslie circulated. The IAB agreed to review and comment, especially on the topics and timeline.


### 11. AOB


The IAB discussed whether the trill WG needs a formal liaison relationship with IEEE 802.1, as documented in its current charter. The IAB concluded that a formal liaison isn’t needed to achieve the goal of document review by 802.1 (but if it were, it should be between IETF and 802.1, not trill and 802.1). Bert has the action of taking this conclusion back to the IESG, meaning that the trill charter needs to be slightly revised.




---


### Appendix A 
IAB Actions


#### Scope of IETF Architecture


Dave Meyer, Allison Mankin  

Initiated: August 2005  

Goal: Create an effort to develop a statement of the scope of the IETF architecture.  

Old Status: The IESG requested that the IAB take this action.  

New Status: No progress. I will turn up the priority with Allison.


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


Loa Andersson  

Initiated: June 2005  

Goal: Describe IETF liaison relationship to other organizations.  

Old Status: Loa has circulated a revised draft to the IAB.  

New Status: Loa circulated another revision, spurring more discussion.


#### IESG Concerns Regarding RFC Processing


Brian Carpenter, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Resolve concerns regarding lack of visibility into RFC Editor state, copy-editing, and excessive author changes in AUTH48. Gather feedback from community.  

Old Status: We had to reschedule the BOF for Vancouver because the draft was not finished in time for Paris.  

New Status: Making progress on establishing and running an experiment with the copy-editing at a different point in the document creation/approval cycle (see IESG report and RFC Editor report).


#### IAB Web Site


Rich Draves  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Review and update the public web site. Find a private web site.  

Old Status: Rich has researched web hosting options; will send email with options to the list shortly.  

New Status: Done. The private web site is operational at www.i1b.org.


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Fältström, Pete Resnick  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

Old Status: Face-2-face meeting at IETF 63. Outline of report created by Patrik and John Klensin.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Goal: Issue workshop report and create archive of workshop material.  

Old Status: draft-iab-messaging-report-00 finished but it missed the draft deadline.  

New Status: draft-iab-messaging-report-00 issued; see document status.


#### IPv6 Policies


IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

Initiated: May 2004  

Goal: Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int deprecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format  

Old Status: IAB should discuss in business meeting.  

New Status: See the report above. Going forward, this committee will report status and not be tracked as an action.


#### DNS Ops TLD Operation


Kurtis Lindqvist, Dave Meyer, Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.  

Old Status: Presented in DNS Ops, wide-spread support for first document, folks were more cautious about a 2nd document on registry operation. IAB will revisit in six months but this is now a WG action.  

New Status: The IAB will remove this from its list of actions and revisit after the March IETF.


#### Architectural Issues


Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages.  

Old Status: No progress.  

New Status: Issues and principles collected during Paris meeting. Pekka working on organising the material, Dave helping. Initial draft for new organisation expected in September 2005.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Leslie Daigle, Brian Carpenter  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Old Status: RFC Editor has been given legal counsel’s opinion that their web site is still wrong. It’s low on their priority list. Rich will check RFC Editor web site after Paris.  

New Status: It appears that the RFC Editor has not updated their web site. Joyce took the action of pinging Bob Braden.


#### Research Note document proposal


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, and Leslie Daigle, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.  

Old Status: No progress  

New Status: discussed topic at IAB breakfast in Paris and on mailing list afterwards. It appears that different people want special IRTF track publications to address different perceived problems.


#### ISOC BoT Selection


Rich Draves, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Before the next round, review the RFC 3677 process. Leslie will circulate list of issues to IAB/IESG/IAOC.  

Old Status: Leslie circulated the lis of issues; discussion is a separate agenda item.  

New Status: Pete Resnick leading the drafting of email to IETF community on this subject; circulated a revised draft on 1 Sep. And Leslie will provide a further revised version for review.


#### Proposed Congestion Control RG


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: January 2005  

Goal: Consult with ADs on the potential role for such a RG Old status: No progress. Plan to meet with Mark Handley in Paris to push things along.  

New Status: Stalled pending finding an appropriate co-chair.




---


### Appendix B 
Documents


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt>  

(expired)  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Old Status: Some internal progress, no externally visible progress.  

New Status: Some internal progress, no externally visible progress.


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-02.txt>  

(expired)  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Old Status: No progress  

New Status: No progress


#### Internet Identities


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-02.txt>  

(expired)  

Patrik Fältström, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: July 2003  

Old Status: Patrik has XML from Geoff. Patrik wants to understand the IAB’s purpose in publishing this document.  

New Status: Leslie is making progress on drafting comments (on the specific document text + proposed purpose).


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-02.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Old Status: Prepared a new draft. Need help filling in some sections.  

New Status: Collecting/integrating input from Lixia and Dave.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>  

(expired)  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Old Status: No progress, didn’t get to it before the deadline.  

New Status: No change. Actually, the -00 expired. I’d like to resubmit with no change in content to keep it on the site until I can do a real revision.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-messaging-report-00.txt>  

Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

New Status: draft-iab-messaging-report-00 available. Awaiting comments. (Very few received so far.) Editing pass, and then will submit for RFC.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-03.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

Old Status: Submitted -03. Jonathan thinks it’s done.  

New Status: Submitted to the RFC Editor.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: Patrik says many comments, discussion of ease of registering new RR types. Document needs revision to incorporate details.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-03.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: Revising to incorporate Pekka’s comments. MPLS/routing-specific material from Loa  

New Status: Revision submitted (-03) incorporating outstanding comments. Are we ready to publish? The IAB decided to ask the community for comments on the current draft. The IAB expects to decide whether to publish at its next business meeting.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-02.txt>  

Bert Wijnen  

Initiated: December 2004  

Old Status: Finished IETF Last Call. Brian (as AD) received a number of comments. Needs revision to indicate that NomCom may use the criteria. Next step would be IESG review for approval.  

New Status: New revision has been posted. Brian now to put it on IESG agenda.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

Initiated: December 2004  

Old Status: Aaron still waiting for Dave’s comments, then IETF Last Call to make it an IAB informational document.


#### IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-01.txt>  

Loa Andersson, Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2005  

Old Status: Revision in progress; Section 1.1. will disappear. After -01 hits the archive, next step is review by IAB, IESG & IEEE 802 ExComm.  

New Status: -01 submitted. So far, no IAB/IESG review comments. Bernard will officially request that Bert put the draft on the IESG agenda, with a DISCUSS while waiting on IEEE.


#### Remaining Issues with the Core IPv6 Protocols


(waiting for -00 draft)  

David Meyer  

Initiated: July 2005  

Old Status: Dave has an outline.  

New Status: This one is slow going, but I’ll up the priorty. Bob and Kurtis are helping out.


#### Mobility Principles (working name)


(waiting for -00 draft)  

Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: August 2005  

New Status: Work started, -00 version expected late September / early October 2005.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves from notes by Bob Hinden and Leslie Daigle; comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


