
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**April 13, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Action List Review](#2)
3. [Document Status Review](#3)
4. [Liaison Reports](#4)
5. [Update from iab-idn ad hoc committee](#5)
6. [ICANN BoT liaison](#6)
7. [IPV6](#7)
8. [SSAC liaison](#8)
9. [IAB web page](#9)
10. [Finalize retreat](#10)
11. [Next tech chat — topic finalization](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Patrik Fältström  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang


**Absent**  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Bob Hinden


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


The minutes of the [1 March telechat](/documents/minutes/minutes-2005/iab-minutes-2005-03-01/) were approved.


The minutes of the [IETF62 meetings](/documents/minutes/minutes-2005/iab-minutes-2005-03-07/) were approved.


### 2. Review of Action Items


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Liaison Reports


The following Liaison Reports were submitted to the IAB.


#### IESG


Bert Wijnen


* nothing to report


#### IRTF


Aaron Falk


* nothing to report


#### ISOC


Lynn St. Amour


* nothing not already covered in previous discussion


#### RFC Editor


Joyce Reynolds


The RFC Editor is pleased to announce two new members of our publication team.


Alice Hagens has joined us as an editor full time. Alice holds a degree in Computer Science from Dartmouth College. She spent a summer as an RA in the UC Irvine Department of Information and Computer Science, where she wrote mySQL queries and Java routines. After graduation she worked in Japan and in Puerto Rico teaching English as a second language. With this background, we expect Alice to make a major contribution to our effort and hence to the Internet technical community.


Alba Regalado has also joined the RFC Editor team part-time. Alba has been with ISI’s Division 7 in other capacities over the last six years. She holds a degree in Business Administration, and is fluent in Spanish. She joins our project to assist in nroffing and editing RFCs. Alba’s efforts are expected to improve our publication output.


### 5. Update from iab-idn ad hoc committee


Discussed during the action list review.


### 6. ICANN BoT liaison


Discussed during the action list review.


### 7. IPV6


#### Doug Barton’s IANA note


The IAB discussed Doug Barton’s note to IANA regarding IPv6 address space allocation. The IAB had some concerns. Kurtis Lindqvist took the action item of drafting a list of issues so we can respond within a week.


#### IPv6 ad-hoc advisory committee


The IPv6 ad-hoc advisory committee (Thomas Narten chair, Geoff Huston, Bob Hinden, Kurtis Lindqvist) has proposed a note on address space allocation. The IAB thinks it may be superceded by Doug’s note. The IAB needs a specific proposal from Thomas Narten.


### 8. SSAC liaison


The IAB discussed whether a formal liaison for SSAC was desired. The IAB decided that at this point it preferred simply a point of contact person. The IAB appointed Patrik Fältström as point of contact for the SSAC.


### 9. IAB web page


The IAB discussed the presence of email addresses on the IAB web site. The IAB agreed to disguise email addresses to make email address harvesting more difficult. The IAB discussed the “news of the month” on the home page. The IAB agreed that it was helpful but it was important that it not be stale. Rich Draves took the action item of reviewing the web site.


### 10. Finalize retreat


The IAB confirmed the selection of June 9/10 for its upcoming retreat. The IAB discussed several locations. Jonathan Rosenberg indicated that he/Cisco could host the retreat near both EWR and IAD. A straw poll indicated a definite preference for IAD.


### 11. Next tech chat — topic finalization


We agree to skip the April 27 tech chat. Pekka Nikander has an action item to work on a list of architectural issues, which we can produce future tech chat topics.




---


### Appendix A 
IAB Actions


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

Status: There has been much discussion but nobody yet willing to agree in writing. One issue is homographs of characters like slashes. Patrik has action of writing up consensus before next IAB meeting.


#### ICANN BoT Liaison


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Per discussion with John Klensin — we need to find a new liaison.  

Status: The IAB discussed some potential candidates and qualifications. The IAB agreed that a strong technical background is important but political strength and seniority is very important. The IAB noted that this does not imply white hair.


#### ICANN TLG Liaison


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Inform ICANN that we are not renewing a liaison to the ICANN TLG  

Status: The old liaison names have been removed from the IETF and IAB liaison web pages. Leslie will ask John Klensin who to inform of our withdrawal.


#### ITU NGN


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Inform our ITU liaison that Scott Brim has been appointed IETF liaison for ITU NGN activities; request that the Secretariat update the IETF liaison web page.  

Status: Done


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Goal: Issue workshop report and create archive of workshop material.  

Status: First draft of workshop report has been circulated to attendees. The IAB suggested that Pete should seek approval from attendees before submitting 00 draft. Pete expects 00 draft (at least) before next IAB meeting.


#### IPv6 Policies


IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

Initiated: May 2004  

Goal: Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int deprecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format  

Status: iana-ipv6-regstry format proposal with RFC Editor. ip6.int document with IESG. Draft published on HD-Ratio. Draft of recommendation regarding IANA Allocation Unit passed to IAB. Further discussion as separate agenda item.


#### DNS Ops TLD Operation


Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.  

Status: Geoff was to propose a WG action to the WG mailing list on the topic of operational considerations for DNS Top Level Domains. Kurtis Lindqvist takes this action item, Dave Meyer will help. Lixia maybe also.


#### IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations


Bob Hinden, Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing environment with scoped and global addresses  

Status: Initial draft being revised. No current status from Bob Hinden.


#### Tech Chat Schedule


Geoff Huston, Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Create tech chat schedule.  

Status: No firm proposal for April. Loa and Pekka to prepare firm proposals. The IAB agreed to discuss a list of big technical issues at its upcoming retreat, to guide tech chat scheduling.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Geoff Huston, Harald Alvestrand, Joyce Reynolds  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Status: Note passed to Legal Counsel – 11 Jan. Followup post IETF62. Leslie will follow up to determine status and will discuss with Brian.


#### Research Note document proposal


Vern Paxson, Leslie Daigle, Sally Floyd, Mark Handley  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, and Leslie Daigle, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.  

Status: Open – requires handover to new IRTF Chair.


#### ISOC BoT Selection


Geoff Huston  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Complete ISOC BoT selection.  

Status: Candidate passed to IESG for confirmation on March 25. We still need to advise the ISOC elections committee chair. At some point before the next round, the IAB should review the RFC 3677 process.


#### Proposed Congestion Control RG


Vern Paxson  

Initiated: January 2005  

Goal: Consult with ADs on the potential role for such a RG  

Status: Open – requires handover to new IRTF Chair




---


### Appendix B 
Documents


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Status: Revision  

Current action: Revise as per comments from IETF call (note draft has expired from the drafts directory). Eric says no recent progress.  

Next step: RFC Submission


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Status: Hold  

Current action: Part of IDN workshop action. Leslie says we can expect progress soon.


#### Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6


Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: March 2003  

Status: Revision  

Current action: Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms. Bernard notes this was the topic of the January techchat. Bernard wrote up ICOS BOF summary. Bernard is working with Russ Housley on this.  

Next step: IETF Review


#### Protocol Models


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-03.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: May 2003  

Status: RFC Editor  

Current action: Submitted to RFC Editor on February 28, in queue.


#### Internet Identities


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-02.txt>  

Patrik Fältström, Geoff Huston  

Initiated: July 2003  

Status: IETF Review  

Current action: Leslie to complete review. Leslie believes the document focus is not clear and she will work with the authors. Patrik says Geoff has the editor token; Patrik is willing to take the document from Geoff.  

Next step: IETF Call


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-01.txt>  

Mark Handley, Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Status: Revision  

Current action: Incorporate review comments from Bernard and Geoff into -02 version. Maintain current scope of consideration. Eric will pickup from Mark.


#### Liaison Management


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-03.txt>  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2003  

Status: RFC Editor  

Current action: Submitted to RFC Editor on January 21, in queue.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Status: Revision  

Current action: Discussed with BEHAVE WG at IETF62. Jonathan says substantial revision needed to make it more prescriptive, no progress since IETF meeting. Jonathan will contact IESG to ask what guidance they want in the document.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-02.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

Status: IETF review  

Current action: Jonathan says mixed comments from community, presumes we will want to progress to RFC, do want to update rationale in document? Pekka says he found draft pretty confusing. He will send comments to Jonathan. Jonathan wants to discuss issues around proposals like “.mobi” without taking an actual stand


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-00.txt>  

Patrik Fältström, Rob Austein  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: Review


Current action: IETF review. Patrik says new draft will be ready in a few days.  

Next step: Produce -01 revision


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-01.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: IETF review  

Current action: Bernard will incorporate comments from IEEE and will send out new version in next month.  

Next step: IETF Call.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-00.txt>  

Geoff Huston  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Review  

Current action: Revise after initial selection process completed. Bert Wijnen will ask Geoff about this.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-00.txt>  

Mark Handley, Sally Floyd  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Review  

Current action: One further revision (-01) pending. Leslie has action to ping Sally about this.  

Next step: IETF Call




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


