
Minutes
IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------


**June 10, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Action List Review](#2)
3. [Document Status Review](#3)
4. [Liaison Reports](#4)
5. [GGF liaison — replacing Brian Carpenter](#5)
6. [IETF liaison to ICANN Board](#6)
7. [Bernard’s IEEE document](#7)
8. [Meta-SDO liaising](#8)
9. [ISOC’s strategic operating plan](#9)
10. [AOB](#10)


#### 1.2 Attendance


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Loa Andersson  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Lixia Zhang  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Allison Mankin — Liaison from the IESG


**Absent**  

Bernard Aboba


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


Minutes from May are accepted.


### 2. Review of Action Items


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Liaison Reports


The following Liaison Reports were submitted to the IAB.


#### ISOC


Lynn St. Amour


ISOC is hiring a senior director of public policy. The position has been posted for 6 weeks and has attracted about 30 candidates. Lynn expects to vet a name with the IETF & IAB chairs.


#### IESG


Bert Wijnen


IESG discussed (today in fact) the JointSDO drafts (which were also forwarded to IAB yesterday). IESG agreed that the drafts do no harm, that we do not want to make a specific IETF quote/statement and that we do not need a formal liaison yet but instead will encourage technical participation from IETF NM experts. Bert to follow up on that.


IESG is still working to publish the documents that came out of MARID, despite the known issues, because we feel that stable specifications are useful for later analysis. It seems that someday we’ll be getting a knock on our door about building reputation systems, and that finding a way to do that without being dragged into business model decisions will be hard.


#### RFC Editor


Joyce Reynolds


After 6+ years as Director of ISI’s Computer Networks Division, Joseph Bannister has decided to step down in order to focus on research interests. Concurrent with Bannister’s stepping down, the division’s Deputy Director, Clifford Neuman, will be returning to a research focus.


ISI and the RFC Editor staff welcomes John Wroclawski as the new Director of our division. Joining John as the division’s Deputy Director will be Terry Benzel, currently ISI’s Assistant Director for Special Projects.


#### IRTF


Aaron Falk


* Met by phone with most RG chairs
* Reducing frequency of RG reporting to once per IETF, or every four months
* Near creation on two new RGs on Models for Transport and Congestion Control
* Discussed processes for creating IAB-initiated RGs at the IAB retreat
* Proposing a tag of “IRTF Report” for use in IRTF-sponsored RFCs
* Planning CCR article on ‘why the research community should participate in the IRTF’
* May attend USENIX workshop on “Steps to Reducing Unwanted Traffic on the Internet” in July


#### IEEE 802


Bernard Aboba


See [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ieee/2005-06-ieee802-liaison-report.html](/liaisons/ieee/2005-06-ieee802-liaison-report/).


### 5. GGF liaison


The IAB discussed candidates for liaison to the Global Grid Forum. The IAB chose David Chadwick (Prof at Univ of Kent in UK). Leslie will inform him; Rich will ask ietf-action to update mailing list.


### 6. IETF liaison to ICANN Board


Already discussed in action list.


### 7. Bernard’s IEEE document


The IAB decided that draft-aboba-ieee802-rel-04.txt should be published as an IAB Informational RFC. Allison Mankin and Bert Wijnen volunteered to find an IESG person to provide input. Loa volunteered to shepherd the document for the IAB.


### 8. Meta-SDO liaising


The IAB discussed the proliferation of meta-SDO meetings and the pros and cons of participating in these meetings. The IAB considered asking ISOC to represent the IETF at these meetings, because they call more for business/political expertise than engineering expertise. The IAB decided to decline participation for now, unless someone shows up who wants to participate. Leslie will reply to panel invitation.


### 9. ISOC’s strategic operating plan


Lynn reported that ISOC is working on a strategic operating plan. The plan bridges the ISOC’s vision, mission, and annual budget. Putting these principles on paper will help chapters and members understand what ISOC cares about. Lyman Chapin has been involved in drafting this document. Lynn wants to know if the document captures ISOC’s role in standards (send feedback to her or Lyman). Eric, Bob, Loa volunteer to read and provide this feedback.


### 10. AOB


There was no other business.




---


### Appendix A
IAB Actions


#### Global Standards Conference


Leslie Daigle, Brian Carpenter  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Should the IETF participate this year? If so, who? Leslie will ask for the agenda because a week seems excessive.  

Status: Confirmed that next meeting is in Sophia Antipoles, but Scott Bradner can not attend. We have nobody who wants to attend, so we will decline to participate.


#### IESG Concerns Regarding RFC Processing


Brian Carpenter, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Resolve concerns regarding lack of visibility into RFC Editor state, copy-editing, and excessive author changes in AUTH48. Gather feedback from community.  

Status: IESG will produce a draft before the Paris cutoff and a General Area BOF is tentatively planned.


#### IAB Web Site


Rich Draves  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Review and update the public web site. Find a private web site.  

Status: Public web site up-to-date, fixed many broken links. No progress yet on private web hosting.


#### IAB Retreat Arrangements


Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Arrange meeting space, hotel rooms, etc for the IAB retreat, June 9/10 near IAD.  

Status: Done


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Faltstrom  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

Status: No progress. Pete Resnick volunteers to help.


#### ICANN BoT Liaison


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Per discussion with John Klensin — we need to find a new liaison.  

Status: Done – Thomas Narten has accepted the position.


#### ICANN TLG Liaison


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Inform ICANN that we are not renewing a liaison to the ICANN TLG  

Status: Done, may be reopened pending an informal discussion with Vint.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Goal: Issue workshop report and create archive of workshop material.  

Status: Co-editor is missing notes for one section. IAB should discuss relevance of this document.


#### IPv6 Policies


IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

Initiated: May 2004  

Goal: Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int deprecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format  

Status: Thomas wrote a revised charter, Leslie in discussions with Thomas.


#### DNS Ops TLD Operation


Kurtis Lindqvist, Dave Meyer, Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.  

Status: Kurtis has circulated a draft draft to some people.


#### IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations


Bob Hinden  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing environment with scoped and global addresses  

Status: No progress. Bob advises dropping this document if he can’t make progress by Paris.


#### Tech Chat Schedule


Leslie Daigle, Loa Andersson, Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Create tech chat schedule, topic proposals due from Loa and Pekka  

Status: Pekka proposes MPLS & Mobility. We will discuss later in the retreat.


#### Architectural Issues


Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages. These can also be discussed at the IAB retreat and guide future tech chat topic selection.  

Status: Dave Meyer volunteers to help.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Status: Jorge Contreras says the provisions on the RFC Ed web site are still broken. Brian will forward Jorge’s opinion to RFC Ed.


#### Research Note document proposal


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, and Leslie Daigle, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.  

Status: Presented ideas on marking (some) IRTF documents ‘IRTF Report’ to IAB; need to review with IRSG and RFC Editor.


#### ISOC BoT Selection


Rich Draves, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Before the next round, review the RFC 3677 process.  

Status: We will discuss in Paris.


#### Proposed Congestion Control RG


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: January 2005  

Goal: Consult with ADs on the potential role for such a RG  

Status: Made contact with Mark Handley, scheduling call between him and Allison Mankin on charter, discussing potential co-chairs.




---


### Appendix B
Documents


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-04.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Status: Revision (current draft has expired)  

Current action: It’s a background item for Eric but he does intend to work on it.  

Next step: RFC Submission


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-02.txt>  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Status: Revision (current draft has expired)  

Current action: No progress.


#### Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6


Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: March 2003  

Status: Revision  

Current action: No progress on this document but progress with Russ on documenting usage of EAP.  

Next step: IETF Review


#### Protocol Models


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-03.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: May 2003  

Status: RFC Editor  

Current action: In AUTH48.


#### Internet Identities


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-02.txt>  

Patrik Faltstrom, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: July 2003  

Status: IETF Review  

Current action: Patrik will get XML from Geoff and talk with Leslie.  

Next step: IETF Call


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-02.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Status: Revision (current draft has expired)  

Current action: Eric has taken document from Mark Handley, converted text to XML, updated with most comments. It’s on his front-burner. Geoff requested a rewrite of one section; Eric is thinking about how to do that.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Status: Revision  

Current action: No progress, still expects update prior to Paris.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-02.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

Status: IETF review  

Current action: Jonathan is circulating new draft for comments; has gotten good comments from some folks. Will wait until Monday then submit new draft, wait a further week and submit to RFC Editor.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

Patrik Faltstrom  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: Review  

Current action: -02 version just submitted.  

Next step: Patrik is researching some objections from namedroppers.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-01.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: IETF review  

Current action: What seemed like a fairly routine request for clarification of terminology turned out to be somewhat more complex since it turned out that the IEEE 802.21 and DNAv6 WGs were using different definitions of terms such as “link”, “link up”, “link down”, etc. Also, terminology was not being used consistently within DNA WG documents, or between DNAv6 and DNAv4. After 3 weeks of DNA WG discussion, I think we have agreement on terminology, but I want to run this by the WG one last time before issuing the -02 version of link indications.  

Next step: Review with WG one last time, then issue -02.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-01.txt>  

Bert Wijnen  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Review  

Current action: No further IESG or IAB comments.  

Next step: Ready for IETF last call.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Review  

Current action: Aaron will incorporate Dave Meyer’s comments.  

Next step: IETF Call




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to [iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


