
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**December 21, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, approval of minutes](#1)
2. [Action List Review](#2)
3. [Document Status Review](#3)
4. [Regular Reports](#4)
5. [Liaison-related actions](#5)
6. [IDN Next Steps](#6)
7. [APRICOT plan](#7)
8. [Update on .ARPA management/recent ICANN agreements](#8)
9. [Workshop plan](#9)
10. [Network stories](#10)
11. [Upcoming IAB meetings](#11)
12. [AOB](#12)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Bob Hinden  

Pekka Nikander  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


November 10 and December 7 minutes were approved.


### 2. Review of Action Items



(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents



(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Regular Reports


#### RFC Editor ReportJoyce K. Reynolds


* Per Ray Pelletier’s suggestion, as of 1 January 2006, the following boilerplate will be changed in the various RFC Editor’s publication files:
Old: 



> 
> Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the Internet Society.
> 
> 
> 


New:



> 
> Funding for the RFC Editor function is provided by the IETF Administrative Support Activity (IASA).
> 
> 
>
* The RFC Editor has sent out a “call for opinions” w.r.t. I-D strings in references sections. The message was sent to the RFC Editor Editorial Board, the IAB, and the IESG.
* Continued to work with Henrik Levkowetz and Bill Fenner on XML –> RFC issues in response to community questions and critiques.


#### IRTF Chair ReportAaron Falk


* Revising draft-iab-irtf-01
* Sent out a bunch of research group reports to irtf-announce
* Received proposal for ‘MANET Operations’ RG
* Discussing ‘small group multicast/XCAST/ALM’ bar BoF in Dallas
* Thinking about RG publication process
* Thinking about IRTF plenary talk and RG review for Dallas


#### ISOC Liaison ReportLynn St. Amour


The ISOC liaison report is quite short as much of the activity over the last month has centered around IAOC and IASA activities.


* ISOC participated extensively in the formation and subsequent reviews and approvals of all the contractual documents required to complete the various CNRI-NeuStar-IASA arrangements. ISOC along with CNRI was a settlor to the Trust and we are very happy that we are able to offer support to the IETF.


#### IESG Liaison ReportBert Wijnen


* IESG is discussing a policy that an AD can unlock a document in case of no reponse from (missing, nonresponding) authors during AUTH48. Idea is to be able to do so starting at 2 weeks after the AUTH48 starts. The topic still needs a (formal) check with RFC-Editor.
* The IESG has responded to the appeals by Julian Mehnle and William Leibzon. Both appeals were against approval of publication of draft-lyon-senderid-core-01.txt See following URLs for details:  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-response-julian-mehnle.txt>  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-response-william-leibzon.txt>
* The IESG responded to an appeal by J.F.C. Morfin. The apeal was about a decision by the LTRU WG chair and the AD. For details see:  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-response-rfc-3066.txt>
* The IESG is still working on a requested PR-action (RFC3863) against Dean Anderson.
* The IESG had also two fully loaded IESG telechats in which we reviewed many documents for publications and quite a set of WGs for chartering or rechartering. So we were still able to do productive and useful work.


### 5. Liaison-related actions


The IAB discussed how a working group can reply to a liaison from another SDO, without modifying its charter to take on another document. The IAB agreed that existing WG processes (i.e., using the WG list to establish consensus for a reply) seem adequate for liaison reply purposes.


The IAB agreed to eliminate duplication between  

 [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/index.html](/liaisons/) and  

<http://www.ietf.org/liaisonActivities.html> by having the IAB web site retain liaison reports and reference the IETF web site for the full list of liaison managers.


The IAB discussed the need for a liaison with IEEE 802.1. MIB transfer is a current pressing topic, and there are longer-term interactions like TRILL. The IAB agreed to have a liaison subordinate to the overall IEEE 802 liaison manager. Bernard accepted the action of writing up requirements for the position.


### 6. IDN Next Steps


The IAB discussed draft-iab-idn-nextsteps-00.txt. The IAB supports the draft, which stems from work of the IAB’s ad hoc committee on IDN issues, but unfortunately the draft does not represent a consensus position of the ad hoc committee. The IAB agreed to proceed with the draft as an IAB document, while appropriately acknowledging the input of the ad hoc committee.


### 7. APRICOT plan


The IAB discussed its plans for the upcoming APRICOT meeting in Australia. The IAB is involved in two sessions. Patrik is leading a session on the IETF (Feb 28). Dave is leading an IAB sesion on IPv6 multihoming (March 1). Dave would like more IAB attendees because after the similar NANOG session in November, he received comments indicating that there wasn’t enough IAB representation. The IAB agreed to draw up a list of critical attendees and if necessary, support their travel with the IAB discretionary fund. The IAB agreed that Kurtis, Dave, Lixia, Leslie, Patrik, Loa, Margaret were all critical.


### 8. Update on .ARPA management/recent ICANN agreements


The IAB agreed that Leslie should send the draft email she had circulated, regarding .ARPA TLD management. [See [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2005-12-22-dot-arpa.html](/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2005/2005-12-22-dot-arpa)]


### 9. Workshop plan


Leslie took overall ownership of the workshop. The IAB agreed to probe the availability of a short list of definite invitees, but to defer sending invitations to a more complete list. The IAB agreed to poll its own attendance. Rich reported that a hotel near the Dallas airport has rooms, and a nearby Nokia facility has meeting space. Rich also reported that the nice folks at Merit had given him the name of the NANOG hotel, but sworn him to secrecy. Rich was contacting this hotel to determine their availability. The IAB noted that internet connectivity at the NANOG hotel might be an issue. The IAB agreed that its members should chair sessions at the workshop.


### 10. Network stories


The IAB deferred this agenda item to next month.


### 11. Upcoming IAB meetings


Leslie noted that Jan 4 is our next business meeting and Jan 25 is our next tech chat. The agenda for Jan 4 will focus on the ISOC BoT selection timeline and the workshop. The agenda for Jan 25 is DHTs, led by Lixia, Jonathan, Pekka, and Eric.


### 12. AOB


(None discussed.)




---


### Appendix AIAB Actions


#### ISOC BoT Appointment Timeline


Rich Draves  

Initiated: December 2005  

Goal: Create a timeline for the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC board.  

New Status: Rich sent draft timeline to the list. The IAB agreed that the draft timeline should be revised so that the “old” IAB (prior to Spring IETF) solicits candidates and the “new” IAB makes the selection, in accord with historical practice.


#### Investigate Wiki/BugTracker for IAB Status Updates


Rich Draves, Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: December 2005  

Goal: Figure out if the IAB should use wiki or bugtracker software on its private web site to track its action/document status.  

Old Status: Rich gave Eric admin access to the private web site; Eric to investigate BugTracker software.  

New Status: Investigating BugTracker is on Eric’s list.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic – Description


Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Update description of proposed IAB workshop on mechanisms for dealing with bad traffic.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic – Invitee List


Pete Resnick  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Update proposed participants for the workshop.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic – Invitation Email


Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Draft invitation email for the workshop.  

New Status: Draft sent to the list.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic – Logistics


Rich Draves  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Finalize hotel/room logistics for the workshop.  

New Status: Reserved Nokia meeting room facility and located nearby hotel. Also determined NANOG hotel and investigating that option.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic – Agenda


Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Create agenda of sessions & presenters for the workshop.


#### Charters for IAB Ad Hoc Committees


Rich Draves  

Initiated: October 2005  

Goal: Publish charters for the IAB ad hoc committees. Start by pulling together existing charter text for IAB review.  

Old Status: First draft finished, revisions needed.  

New Status: Done, see [http://www.iab.org/about/adhocs/index.html](/about/adhocs/).


#### MFA Liaison


Loa Andersson  

Initiated: September 2005  

Goal: Find a new MFA liaison, since Andy Malis is now President of the MFA Forum.  

Old Status: I’m still working my way through the list of names I got from Andy, so far no further development.  

New Status: Leslie polled IESG for any final objections to our selection… No objections raised, so we’re working on confirming the selection’s willingness and announcing.


#### Scope of IETF Architecture


Dave Meyer, Allison Mankin  

Initiated: August 2005  

Goal: Create an effort to develop a statement of the scope of the IETF architecture.  

Old Status: No progress. The IAB will discuss this with the IESG in Vancouver to better understand this action item, which originated in a request from the IESG.  

New Status: Leslie has the action item to resummarize. I pinged Allison a while back.


#### IESG Concerns Regarding RFC Processing


Brian Carpenter, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Resolve concerns regarding lack of visibility into RFC Editor state, copy-editing, and excessive author changes in AUTH48. Gather feedback from community.  

Old Status: -01 document is now published. techspec BOF is scheduled.  

New Status: Done. techspec bof was held and work is proceeding.


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Fältström, Pete Resnick  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

Old Status: Summary discussed with individuals in the IAB-IDN committee, and I hope to be able to write up the result after IETF week.


#### Architectural Issues


Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages.  

Old Status: Pekka continuing to process feedback and fill in actual data. First revision of some data pages expected in late November/ December. Rich Draves looking at hosting options, considering organising the information in WikiPedia style.  

New Status: One data page drafted. Slowly filling data to others. For hosting, we could partition the IAB’s private web site into public and private areas and host a public wiki.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Leslie Daigle, Brian Carpenter  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Old Status: As far as is known, no status change. We should revisit in Vancouver business meeting.  

New Status: Bound up with ongoing discussion in IPR WG and with formation of IETF Trust. Does this need to stay on the IAB list?




---


### Appendix BDocuments


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-04.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Old Status: Has comments from Pekka, there’s been some discussion. Still waiting for comments from Brian, but won’t wait much longer.  

New Status: Eric has Brian’s comments. Editing.


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt> (expired)  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Old Status: No progress. Haven’t given up.  

New Status: Sadly, no change, and no change likely this month.


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-03.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Old Status: IETF Call for Input in progress.  

New Status: IETF Call for Input issued Oct 29, concluded Nov 26. Editing. No progress.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt> (expired)  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Old Status: Unfortunately, it didnt get done. Day job plus some family issues have taken a lot of my IETF/IAB time away over the last few weeks.  

New Status: Sets Jan 31 as deadline for new draft; will review in Feb 1 mtg.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-messaging-report-01.txt>  

Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Old Status: -01 draft is ready to ship to RFC Editor.  

New Status: -01 draft sent to RFC Editor.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-03.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

New Status: Still in RFC Editor queue.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: I have a -03 version, and you saw the changes. I got VERY good comments from Pekka om my ugly english, so a new 03 version should be visible shortly.  

New Status: Next up after idn-nextsteps.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-03.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Old Status: Revision in progress.  

New Status: -04 will be submitted week of Dec 19.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-03.txt>  

Bert Wijnen  

Initiated: December 2004  

New Status: Still in RFC Editor queue.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

Initiated: December 2004  

Old Status: No comments from IESG so Leslie/Aaron will figure out who will send it to the RFC Editor.  

New Status: IETF Call for Comments issued Nov 30, concluded Dec 14. Aaron and Sally Floyd have a revision that incorporates comments and is ready for publication, subject to final approval.


#### IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-05.txt>  

Loa Andersson, Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2005  

Old Status: An -02 revision was submitted to address some confusion about use of the term “members” to refer to IETF participants. On advice of Scott Bradner, the term “members” has been changed to “participants” throughout the document wherever the term refers to the IETF. According to Paul Congdon, Vice Chair of IEEE 802.1, some comments have been received from the IEEE 802 ExComm. Paul will package these up and send them on.  

New Status: -05 draft sent to RFC Editor.


#### Mobility Principles (working name)


(waiting for -00 draft)  

Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: August 2005  

Old Status: Missed -00 deadline, currently on hold [due to a day job override]. Planning to continue after Vancouver.  

New Status: No progress.


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-guidelines-00.txt>  

Loa Andersson  

Initiated: October 2005  

Old Status: No change. We need a round of comments on this doc, should we ask on any particular list? The IAB suggested as next steps, to incorporate Eric’s comments, revise in response to discussion with Brian and Leslie. More internal review, then review with the ietf-liaison list.  

New Status: The IAB decided to release Loa’s revised draft as -01. Bernard read the draft for spelling and grammer, Loa needs to incorporate.


#### Secure Autoconfiguration


<http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-config-secure-00.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: October 2005  

Old Status: Discussion ongoing as to what the document is/should be, and whether we should make it an IAB document or drop it. Any opinions? The IAB asked Bernard to try formulating the document as more of an issues document instead of a solutions document, explaining why it is difficult to achieve secure autoconfiguration.  

New Status: No progress on this one.


#### Internationalized Domain Names


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-idn-nextsteps-00.txt>  

Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: November 2005  

Old Status: First draft published.


#### Gaps and Missing Pieces in IPv6


(waiting for -00 draft)  

David Meyer  

Initiated: December 2005  

Old Status: Initial draft due 1 Feb 2006.  

New Status: Prioritizing another document on shim6…


#### IPv6 Multihoming Issues


(waiting for -00 draft)  

Bob Hinden  

Initiated: December 2005  

Old Status: Initial draft due 3 Jan 2006.


#### GSE History


(waiting for -00 draft)  

Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: December 2005  

Old Status: Initial draft due 3 Jan 2006.  

New Status: Will work on over the holidays.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


