
Minutes
 IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**11 January 2005**




---



### 1. Roll call, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes



> 
> #### 1.1 Agenda
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 1. [Roll call, Agenda Bash and Approval of Previous Minutes](#1)
> > 2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
> > 3. [Review of Documents](#3)
> > 4. [Liaison Reports](#4)
> > 5. [Discussion of joint SDO NM MoU](#5)
> > 6. [ICANN NomCom appointee](#6)
> > 7. [Call times and plan from here to March IETF](#7)
> > 8. [IPv6 allocation, current status](#8)
> > 9. [Multilingual TLD question for ICANN](#9)
> > 10. [ISOC BoT Selection Procedure](#10)
> > 11. [IRTF Chair Selection](#11)
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.2 Attendance
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair   
> > > 
> > > Harald Alvestrand — IETF/IESG Chair   
> > > 
> > > Bernard Aboba   
> > > 
> > > Rob Austein   
> > > 
> > > Patrik Fältstr&oumlm  
> > > 
> > > Sally Floyd   
> > > 
> > > Bob Hinden   
> > > 
> > > Geoff Huston   
> > > 
> > > Eric Rescorla   
> > > 
> > > Jonathan Rosenberg   
> > > 
> > > Pete Resnick   
> > > 
> > > Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  
> > > 
> > > Joyce Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  
> > > 
> > > Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **Apologies**
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Jun-ichiro Itojun Hagino   
> > > 
> > > Mark Handley   
> > > 
> > > Vern Paxson — IRTF Chair
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> #### 1.3 Previous Minutes
> 
> 
> 
> > 
> > The minutes of the [IAB December telechat](/documents/iabmins/iabmins.2004-12-14.html) were approved.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 



### 2. Review of Action Items



> 
> (See [Appendix A](#a))
> 
> 
> 



### 3. Review of Documents



> 
> (See [Appendix B](#b))
> 
> 
> 



### 4. IAB Liaison Reports



> 
> 
> **IESG**  
> 
>   Rob Austein, Bert Wijnen
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 
> **IRTF**  
> 
>   Vern Paxson
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 
> **RFC Editor**  
> 
>   Joyce Reynolds
> 
> 
> * Nothing to report.
> 
> 
> 
> **ISOC**  
> 
>   Lynn St Amour
> 
> 
> * ISOC’s 2005 Budget
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The Internet Society’s budget for 2005 was approved at the ISOC Board of Trustees meeting on December 16th, 2004. Text and accompanying financial presentation can be found at:  
> 
> <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/fin/budget2005.shtml>.
> 
> 
> 
>  Also for information, ISOC’s 2003 Annual Report can be found at:  
> 
> <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/reports/ar2003/index.php>.
> * RFC Editor Contract for 2005
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  After appropriate review by both the IAB Chair and the ISOC Board, a contract extension for 2005 was agreed with ISI for the RFC Editor set of responsibilities. The contract will be posted at:  
> 
> <http://www.isoc.org/standards/>.
> 
> 
> 
> **IEE802**  
> 
>   Bernard Aboba
> 
> 
> * Review of EAP Network Discovery draft for publication as an Informational RFC is complete. 802.11 is requesting two changes to the EAP Method Requirements document that is now in the RFC Editor Queue.
> * As noted in November’s report, there were some issues with the IEEE 802.11 WNM PAR proposal, which although it passed, garnered a significant number of “No” votes. The text of the PAR included misstatements relating to SNMP, as well as some confusion about the purpose of the group (e.g. is it to handle specific issues, or to develop a new management framework specific to 802.11). At the IEEE 802.11 plenary on Friday, November 19 a motion was made to revoke the PAR approval, based on the criticisms made in the “No” votes and the vagueness of the PAR. The motion did not meet the required 75% approval hurdle, so the WNM PAR stands. At the January 802.11 interim, the newly approved TGV will meet and will work on better understanding the required work items.
> * Coordination of activity relating to benchmarking of 802.11 Access Points and Stations is being undertaken between the IETF BMWG and 802.11 TGT. he recommendation is that the work be done in 802.11 TGT, but that review be conducted by the BMWG WG. This was subsequently discussed and agreed to by the BMWG WG chairs. Next step is to find a BMWG WG participants to carry out the liaison with 802.11 TGT. A suitable volunteer has not yet been found.
> * A charter is being considered for the IPVLX WG which grew out of the IETF 60 RBRIDGE BOF, and similar questions have arisen regarding where the activity should be hosted. An evaluation of the status of this activity would tend to indicate that the work would most conveniently be done in the IETF, but that review by IEEE 802 or appointment of a technical expert with IEEE 802 expertise would be appropriate.
> 
> 
> 
>  The full liaison report can be found at  
> 
> [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ieee/2004-12-ieee802-liaison-report.html](/liaisons/ieee/2004-12-ieee802-liaison-report.html)
> 
> 
> 
> 
> **GGF**  
> 
>   Brian Carpenter
> 
> 
> * GGF is one of the organizations poised to sign a new MoU on standards for Management of Networked Resources.
> * One of the two GGF Area Directors for their Data area, which includes networking, has just resigned due to day job commitments. That leaves David Martin (IBM) as the only active GGF AD with responsibility for networking. At the same time, the GGF’s official liaison to the IETF, Cees de Laat, has signalled a lack of time available for this role.
> 
> 
> 
> **OMA**  
> 
>   Dean Willis
> 
> 
> * The Open Mobile Alliance’s Presence and Availability group issued a liaison statement to the IETF Centralized Conferencing (XCON) working group. This LS can be viewed at:  
> 
> <http://ee.wustl.edu/~alan/xcon/OMA-PAG-2004-0840R03-XDM-CPCP-Dependencies.pdf>
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  Background: OMA’s PAG is heavily involved in specification work supporting OMA’s Push-to-talk Over Cellular, or POC group. POC is essentially a conferencing application. XCON held an interim meeting last week, and I don’t know to what extent they were able to address the OMA-PAG LS. I have concerns that OMA may have become dependent on projected work in XCON that may no longer align with the XCON work plan, specifically in the area of using XCAP (draft-ietf- simple-xcap-05.txt) as a “conference policy control protocol” or CPCP.
> * Further information on OMA dependencies on ongoing IETF work is maintained at:  
> 
> <http://www.openmobilealliance.com/collaborating/ietf.html>.
> 
> 
> 
> **IETF Nominations Committee**  
> 
>   Eric Rescorla
> 
> 
> * The committee is proceeding with candidate selection in a diligent manner. The committee has identified a need for some support tools to assist in the committee’s work in terms of managing community feedback.
> 
> 
> 



### 5. Discussion of joint SDO NM MoU



> 
>  The IAB considered a proposal to sign a Joint Memorandum of Understanding concerning standards collaboration on the topic of management of networked resources within a distributed computing environment.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IETF is recognized as a participating organization in this activity. Other organizational participants are: Distributed Management Task Force (DMTF), the Global Grid Forum (GGF), Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Systems (OASIS), Storage Network Industry Association (SNIA) and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  Bert reported on suggesting to the joint group that that the ITU-T and TMF should be part of this effort.
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  The IAB concluded that the IETF’s considerations relating to participation, access to working documents, technical focus and IPR would indicate that the IETF interests may be best met by continuation of participation in this activity without formally entering into the MoU. The views of the IESG will be sought on this topic.
> 
> 
> 
> 



### 6. ICANN NomCom appointee



> 
>  The IAB considered the process of selection of an individual to serve on ICNN’s Nominations Committee for 2005. The IAB noted that the intended involvement of this individual in the deliberations of the ICANN Nominating Committee would be primarily in the nomination and advocacy of individuals with a strong IETF-related technical background.
> 
> 
> 



### 7. Call times and plan from here to March IETF



> 
>  The IAB considered scheduling of telechats, and concluded to move the starting time of telechats back by 2 hours for the January – March 2005 period.
> 
> 
> 



### 8. IPv6 allocation, current status



> 
>  The IAB reviewed the documentation concerning the status of IPv6 Global Unicast address prefixes, and noted that the current IPv6 Addressing Architecture Document (RFC3513) proposed allocations from the address prefix 2000::/3. A clarification to this effect will be passed to IANA.
> 
> 
> 



### 9. Multilingual TLD question for ICANN and IDNs



> 
>  The IAB considered issues relating to the use of multi-lingual character sets in the DNS. Material prepared for IAB consideration will be used to respond to an outstanding question regarding multilingual TLDs, and further steps ergarding a potential IAB workshop on IDNs were considered.
> 
> 
> 



### 10. ISOC BoT Selection Procedure



> 
>  The IAB reviewed a proposed 2005 schedule for the selection of an IETF- nominated member of the Board of Trustees of the Internet Society and endorsed a schedule that commenced in January 2005 and concluded in April 2005.
> 
> 
> 



### 11. IRTF Chair Selection



> 
>  The IAB considered the next steps in the process of selecting a IRTF Chair.
> 
> 
> 



### Next Meeting



> 
>  Teleconference, Tuesday 8 February
> 
> 
> 




---


### Appendix A


### IAB Actions


* **IDN**
	Patrik Faltstrom, Leslie Daigle  
	
	Feb-03  
	
	Actions:
	
		- Coordinate preparatory work for a possible IAB ‘virtual’ workshop on IDN and related matters
		- Summarize outstanding issues, circulate notes prepared for ICANN meeting, compile a list of questions to be addressed in the context of a workshop
		- Leslie, Patrik and John Klensin to review


- **IAB Messaging Workshop**



  

 Pete Resnick  

 [Apr-04]  

 Actions:
+ Archive of workshop material to be created
+ Workshop report to be prepared


- **IPv6 Policies**



  

 IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

 [May-04]  

 Actions:
+ Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int decrecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format
+ submit draft-iab-ip6.int as proposed BCP
+ circulate  

[draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-huston-ip6-iana-registry-00.txt) to interested groups
+ circulate allocation unit considerations to IAB


- **DNS Ops TLD Operation**



  

 Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.
+ Shepherd a group to prepare a draft on the topic of operational considerations for DNS Top Level Domains


- **IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations**



  

 Bob Hinden, Rob Austein, Itojun Hagino, Geoff Huston  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing enviironment with scoped and global addresses
+ revision of initial draft


- **IPv6 Centrally Assigned ULAs**



  

 Leslie Daigle  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review draft and IPv6 WG considerations regarding IANA Considerations for this proposal
+ Leslie has posted a preliminary report for IAB review.
+ Consult ADs on issues raised
+ Propose the preparation of a document that would meet the requirements as described in the WG CAULA draft (once further WG revisions are complete).
+ Awaiting new rev of the WG draft


- **IRTF Review**



  

 Mark Handley, Sally Floyd  

 [Sep-04]  

 Actions:
+ Review initial notes and propose IAB document on the role of the IRTF
+ Revise draft following IAB comments


- **Tech Chat Schedule**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston, Bernard Aboba  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current Action:
	
		+ Jan 25 – IP Configuration – Bernard Aboba
		+ Feb 22 – Network Management – Geoff Huston

- **RFC Editor Copyright**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston, Harald Alvestrand, Joyce Reynolds  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current ACtion:
	
		+ Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal council for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.
		+ Waiting review response

- **Research Note document proposal**
	  
	
	 Vern Paxson, Sally Floyd, Mark Handley  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 current Action:
	
		+ Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.

- **SECSAC liaison**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ Pass a a note to the chair of SECSAC inviting a proposal from the chair for a liaison from the IETF to SECSAC, noting the initial IAB considerations for such a liaison role.

- **ISOC BoT Selection**
	  
	
	 Lynn St Amour, Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ Lynn to provide the IAB Exec Dir with a 2005 election schedule
		+ Geoff to prepare 2005 material and determine a timetable for the 2005 process
		+ Schedule review of 3677 for the IAB agenda for 2005, to determine whether any changes are merited based on the final outcome of the administrative restructuring implementation discussion.

- **IAOC Selection**
	  
	
	 Geoff Huston  
	
	 [Nov-04]  
	
	 Action:
	
		+ To prepare a process description for the IAB to follow, based on RFC 3677



---


### Appendix B


### IAB Documents



> 
> * **A survey of Authentication Mechanisms**  
> 
> [draft-iab-auth-mech](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-00.txt)
> 	Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	Apr-02
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | Editor Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revise as per comments from IETF call |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internationalized Resource Identifiers**  
> 
> [draft-iab-char-rep](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-00.txt)
> 	 Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-02]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: | 
> 	Hold |
> 	| Current Action:  | Part of IDN workshop action |
> 
> 
> * **Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Mar-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Propose to rework current summary as a framework description. Note original problem statement of the range of choices of discovery mechanisms. |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Review |
> 
> 
> * **Protocol Models**  
> 
> [draft-iab-model](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-model-00.txt)
> 	 Eric Rescorla  
> 	
> 	 [May-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revision |
> 	| Next Step: | RFC Submission |
> 
> 
> * **Internet Identities**  
> 
> [draft-iab-identities](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Jul-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | IAB Review |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Call for Comments |
> 
> 
> * **DOS Attacks**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dos](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-00.txt)
> 	 Mark Handley  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Incorporate review comments from Bernard and Geoff into -02 version. Maintain current scope of consideration. |
> 
> 
> * **Liaison Management**  
> 
> [draft-iab-liaison-mgmt](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-mgmt-00.txt)
> 	Leslie Daigle  
> 	
> 	 [Nov-03]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  IESG Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IESG |
> 
> 
> * **Untangling Activeware**  
> 
> 	  
> 	
> 	 Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [Apr-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | IAB consideration on the topic of the interaction of NATs, ALGs, Firewals, Application frameworks and IPv6 transition mechanisms. 
> 	 Consider ways of devolving this in a manner that allows productive study of the interactions and inter-dependencies at play here. |
> 	| Next Step: | Drafted and ready for IAB Review (ekr, Bernard, Rob) |
> 
> 
> * **Top Level Domain Issues**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-assumptions](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Jonathan Rosenberg  
> 	
> 	 [May-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Revision |
> 	| Current Action:  | Revision as per received comments |
> 	| Next Step: | IETF Call for Comments |
> 
> 
> * **Design Choices When Expanding DNS**  
> 
> [draft-iab-dns-choices](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-00.txt)
> 	  
> 	
> 	Patrik Faltstrom, Rob Austein  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications**  
> 
> [draft-iab-link-indications](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-00.txt)
> 	 Bernard Aboba  
> 	
> 	 [Jun-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  IETF Review |
> 	| Current Action:  | IETF review |
> 
> 
> * **OMA Liaison Agreement**  
> 
> [draft-iab-oma-liaison](http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-oma-liaison-00.txt)
> 	 Geoff Huston  
> 	
> 	 [Sep-04]
> 	
> 	
> 	|  |  |
> 	| --- | --- |
> 	| 
> 	 Status: |  RFC Editor |
> 	| Current Action:  | Submitted to RFC Editor 8-Sep |
> 
> 
> 




---


 These minutes were prepared by the IAB Executive Director, Geoff Huston. Any comments should be sent to  

[iab-execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



 The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)





---


