
Minutes 
IAB Meeting at IETF63
------------------------------


**August 2, 2005**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of Action Items](#2)
3. [Review of Documents](#3)
4. [Liaison Reports](#4)
5. [IAB IPv6 ad hoc committee](#5)
6. [IAB IDN ad hoc committee](#6)
7. [IAB ISOC tech communications committee](#7)
8. [ISOC BoT appointment process](#8)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Loa Andersson  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Fältström  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Bernard Aboba  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


Minutes from July were accepted.


### 2. Review of Action Items



(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Documents



(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Liaison Reports


The IAB briefly discussed the frequency of liaison reports. The IAB noted that its Executive Director polls the IETF liaisons monthly for reports. The IAB requested a report from the ITU NGN liaison.


The following Liaison Reports were submitted to the IAB.


#### ISOC Lynn St. Amour


Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) – The WGIG report was released and can be found at <http://www.wgig.org>. ISOC participates in all formal (and many regional/topical) WSIS or WGIG events. We will be preparing a statement on the WGIG report for submission to the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), and we have posted a survey on Internet Governance at:  

<http://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/wsis/wgigsurvey.shtml>



You are encouraged to take the survey – we need as many informed people as possible to participate.


#### RFC Editor Joyce Reynolds


Nothing to report.


#### IRTF Aaron Falk


Accomplishments:


* mobopts rg, p2prg, dtn rg, hip rg meeting at IETF
* nmrg met in Nancy, France on 7/30-31
* IRTF website cleanup to be online by Thurs


In Progress:


* Mobility Optimizations RG review scheduled for Thursday breakfast
* Transport Models Research Group slightly wedged, should be submitted to IAB this week
* Internet Congestion Control Research Group wedged on getting co-chair lined up, hope to make progress this week, possibly needing to wait until SIGCOMM to have things really lined up
* Received proposal for RG on authenticating source IP addresses, forwarded to IAB, IRSG
* Collecting RG reports post-IETF, will forward to IAB, irtf-announce


Plans:


* Adapt IETF’s Note Well/IPR policies to IRTF


#### IESG Bert Wijnen


Nothing to report, other than what the IAB has heard on Sunday and Monday morning.


#### ITU NGN Scott Brim


SG13 FGNGN is wrapping up, trying to fill in the details of architecture and requirements. It is probable that none of this has impact on the IETF. I will doublecheck, but since the last significant meeting is August 24th, followed by SG13 (which is much more likely to have impact), I will do so at those meetings.


### 5. IAB IPv6 ad hoc committee


Leslie reported further discussions with Thomas Narten. Because Thomas now has other liaison duties, it is not clear that he is still the right person to chair the IPv6 ad hoc committee. Kurtis Lindqvist agreed to take over from Thomas. Leslie asked them to get together and revise the charter.


### 6. IAB IDN ad hoc committee


Patrik reported that at a short meeting of the committee during IETF week, he and John Klensin tried to draft a list of issues. They agreed to two different threads:


1. Look more at how to extend LDH (Letters Digits Hyphen) with unicode code points. (This would be a stop-gap solution; more thought required to determine what would be involved and what problems it would solve.)
2. Patrik & John to continue to write overall document on IDNs.


The IAB discussed the possibility of chartering a research group to look at the IDN problem.


### 7. IAB ISOC tech communications committee


The IAB agreed to form a subcommittee to work with the ISOC on technical communications issues. The purpose of the group is to develop brief technical notes on hot topics, identify upcoming hot topics, and coordinate with the rest of ISOC/IAB/IETF for input. The group will be made aware of other ongoing ISOC publications, but it will not have a formal review role. The subcommittee will have several IAB members; Patrik, Dave, Pete, and Leslie are the initial volunteers. Lynn and other ISOC folks will participate. The subcommittee will have a mailing list, periodic telechats, write technical notes, and perform ad hoc review as necessary.


### 8. ISOC BoT appointment process


The IAB reviewed three potential issues with the RFC 3677 ISOC BoT appointment process:


1. Given the evolving responsibilities of the NomCom, should the IAB or the NomCom appoint ISOC BoT members?
2. Have the desirable qualifications for the IETF appointee changed?
3. Given the evolving IETF/ISOC relationship, should the selection process say something about the desirability or conflict of having people serve in both IETF and ISOC leadership roles.


The IAB discussion focused on the third issue. The IAB noted that simultaneous service in IETF and ISOC leadership roles can occur through multiple scenarios and if the community decides that it’s undesirable, it would take more than an RFC 3677 revision to prevent it. Pete took the action of drafting a communication from the IAB to the community on this topic.




---


### Appendix A IAB Actions


#### Scope of IETF Architecture


Dave Meyer, Allison Mankin  

Initiated: August 2005  

Goal: Create an effort to develop a statement of the scope of the IETF architecture.  

Status: The IESG requested that the IAB take this action.


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


Loa Andersson  

Initiated: June 2005  

Goal: Describe IETF liaison relationship to other organizations.  

Status: Loa has circulated a revised draft to the IAB.


#### IESG Concerns Regarding RFC Processing


Brian Carpenter, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: May 2005  

Goal: Resolve concerns regarding lack of visibility into RFC Editor state, copy-editing, and excessive author changes in AUTH48. Gather feedback from community.  

Status: We had to reschedule the BOF for Vancouver because the draft was not finished in time for Paris.


#### IAB Web Site


Rich Draves  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Review and update the public web site. Find a private web site.  

Status: Rich researched web hosting options and circulated information and options to the IAB.


#### IDN Ad Hoc


Patrik Fältström, Pete Resnick  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

Status: Face-2-face meeting at IETF 63. Outline of report created by Patrik and John Klensin.


#### ICANN TLG Liaison


Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: March 2005  

Goal: Inform ICANN that we are not renewing a liaison to the ICANN TLG  

Status: Done


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


Pete Resnick  

Initiated: April 2004  

Goal: Issue workshop report and create archive of workshop material.  

Status: draft-iab-messaging-report-00 finished but it missed the draft deadline.


#### IPv6 Policies


IPv6AD Hoc Advisory Committee  

Initiated: May 2004  

Goal: Passed a set of current IPv6 issues to the ad-hoc IAB advisory committee on IPv6 addressing issues: ip6.int deprecation, hd-ratio considerations, minimum IANA IPv6 allocation unit, IANA IPv6 registry terminology and format  

Status: IAB should discuss in business meeting.


#### DNS Ops TLD Operation


Kurtis Lindqvist, Dave Meyer, Lixia Zhang  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: DNSOPS WG activity on TLD operational considerations. Offer of editorial assistance in any WG document to be made to the WG.  

Status: Presented in DNS Ops, wide-spread support for first document, folks were more cautious about a 2nd document on registry operation. IAB will revisit in six months but this is now a WG action.


#### IPv6 Multi-Address Considerations


Bob Hinden  

Initiated: September 2004  

Goal: Document considerations relating to address selection procedures and potential side effects in a multi-address- ing environment with scoped and global addresses  

Status: No progress, Bob is punting permanently.


#### Tech Chat Schedule


Leslie Daigle, Loa Andersson, Pekka Nikander   

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Create tech chat schedule, topic proposals due from Loa and Pekka  

Status: Done. Rich will check each month to ensure we don’t run out of topics.


#### Architectural Issues


Pekka Nikander  

Initiated: April 2005  

Goal: Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages. These can also be discussed at the IAB retreat and guide future tech chat topic selection.  

Status: No progress.


#### RFC Editor Copyright


Leslie Daigle, Brian Carpenter  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Pass RFC Editor Copyright provisions to IETF legal counsel for review with respect to permissions relating to protection of IETF interests, integrity of the IETF Standards Track documents for derivative works and relation to any third party interests in the material published by the RFC Editor.  

Status: RFC Editor has been given legal counsel’s opinion that their web site is still wrong. It’s low on their priority list. Rich will check RFC Editor web site after Paris.


#### Research Note document proposal


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Convene a group consisting of Vern Paxson, Brian Carpenter, Aaron Falk, and Leslie Daigle, assisted by Sally Floyd and Mark Handley to document this proposal and highlight related considerations for the IAB.  

Status: No progress


#### ISOC BoT Selection


Rich Draves, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2004  

Goal: Before the next round, review the RFC 3677 process. Leslie will circulate list of issues to IAB/IESG/IAOC.  

Status: Leslie circulated the list of issues; discussion is a separate agenda item.


#### Proposed Congestion Control RG


Aaron Falk  

Initiated: January 2005  

Goal: Consult with ADs on the potential role for such a RG  

Status: No progress. Plan to meet with Mark Handley in Paris to push things along.




---


### Appendix B Documents


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-03.txt> (expired)  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: April 2002  

Status: Some internal progress, no externally visible progress.


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt> (expired)  

Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: November 2002  

Status: No progress


#### Secure Autoconfiguration in IPv6


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-housley-aaa-key-mgmt-00.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: March 2003  

Status: Under review by EAP, RADEXT, and AAA WGs.


#### Internet Identities


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-identities-02.txt> (expired)  

Patrik Fältström, Leslie Daigle  

Initiated: July 2003  

Status: Patrik has XML from Geoff. Patrik wants to understand the IAB’s purpose in publishing this document.


#### DOS Attacks


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-02.txt>  

Eric Rescorla  

Initiated: September 2003  

Status: Prepared a new draft. Need help filling in some sections.


#### Untangling Activeware


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: April 2004  

Status: No progress, didn’t get to it before the deadline.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-03.txt>  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Initiated: May 2004  

Status: Submitted -03. Jonathan thinks it’s done.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

Patrik Fältström  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: Patrik says many comments, discussion of ease of registering new RR types. Document needs revision to incorporate details.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-02.txt>  

Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2004  

Status: Revising to incorporate Pekka’s comments.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-01.txt>  

Bert Wijnen  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Finished IETF Last Call. Brian (as AD) received a number of comments. Needs revision to indicate that NomCom may use the criteria. Next step would be IESG review for approval.


#### IRTF Review


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

Initiated: December 2004  

Status: Aaron still waiting for Dave’s comments, then IETF Last Call to make it an IAB informational document.


#### IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-00.txt>  

Loa Andersson, Bernard Aboba  

Initiated: June 2005  

Status: Revision in progress; Section 1.1. will disappear. After -01 hits the archive, next step is review by IAB, IESG & IEEE 802 ExComm.


#### Remaining Issues with the Core IPv6 Protocols


David Meyer  

Initiated: July 2005  

Status: Dave has an outline.




---


IETF63 Technical Plenary
------------------------


**August 4, 2005**


* Welcome and introduction
* [Technical presentation](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/ietf-secarch.pdf) (Steve Bellovin)  

Application Security: Threats and Architecture
* [IAB update](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/63-iab-chair-plenary.ppt) (Leslie Daigle)
* [IRTF report](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/irtf-plenary-report-ietf-63.pdf) (Aaron Falk)
* [Internet Congestion Control Research Group](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/iccrg-paris.ppt) (Mark Handley)
* IAB open mic
* [Town Hall Meeting](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2011/03/town-hall.ppt) – technical topics




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)



The IAB Web page is at [http://www.iab.org](/)




---


