
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**December 20, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Progress on 2006 IAB Threads](#2)
3. [Dave Thaler’s drafts as IAB docs](#3)
4. [Nomcom Dialogue](#4)
5. [Data Tracker Proposal](#5)
6. [IWOUT Report](#6)
7. [Topic for January, February tech chats](#7)
8. [Regular Reports](#8)
9. [AOB](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair


#### 1.2 Attendance


The IAB approved the minutes of the December 6 meeting and of the IETF.


### 2. Progress on 2006 IAB threads


The IAB reviewed its activities for the second half of 2006 organized around the following areas: 1) routing and addressing, 2) edge challenges, and 3) internet architecture for all. The general observation is that we are making progress and are more or less pursuing the tasks we set out in June. The Fall was overrun by processing of appeals but we maintained some technical focus on routing and addressing through the activities surrounding the workshop.


### 3. Dave Thaler’s drafts as IAB docs


The IAB discussed some documents that Dave Thaler is working on. The multilink subnets document is ready for IAB last call. The IAB discussed the principles of IP configuration document and whether it should be an IAB document. There is some concern about to what extent it is an architectural document, or a list of best current practices, or prescriptive guidance for protocol developers. The main architectural points are summarized in the bullets in section 1. It was observed that the first bullet is poorly worded since it mentions protocols, not an architectural point. It should be rephrased to point out that there are tradeoffs between the concept of fate sharing and centralized control. The IAB agreed to consider this and Elwyn volunteered to have another look at it in the context of reframing it around the architectural principle. Bernard already has a list of changes that need to be made.


### 4. Nomcom Dialogue


The IAB discussed a follow-up message to the nomcom clarifying the IAB’s expectation about input the nomcom receives from the community and how that affects the IAB’s decisions during its confirmation process.


### 5. Data tracker proposal update


The IAB provided some finishing comments to the draft tracker proposal for IAB input. For the time being the IAB chair and the executive director will have access to the use of the tool, but it remains possible to extend it to the whole IAB in the future.


### 6. IWOUT report


The IAB discussed the report from the unwanted traffic workshop. The IAB agreed to a policy about authorship, affiliation, and the IAB role in workshop reports: individual editors may list their day job affiliation, there will not be IAB authorship, and the text of the document will be clear about whose perspective it represents. The text should be clear about when the IAB is agreeing with the substantive content of a document and when it is making a report. This will be documented in draft-iab-publications.


### 7. Topic for January, February tech chats


The IAB discussed the topics for tech chats in January and February. Kevin Fall agreed to present a discussion on research in scalable routing during the January tech chat. The February tech chat is being held open for a potential discussion of things coming out of the unwanted traffic workshop report.


### 8. Regular reports


#### IESG Liaison Report Dan Romascanu


1. Following the publication of RFC4693 the first two IONs (IETF Operational Notes) have been submitted for public review. The two notes deal with the ION format and store. The IONs are available at:
<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/ions/drafts/ion-ion-format.txt>  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/ions/drafts/ion-ion-store.html>



Comments should be sent by 2006-12-31.
2. The IESG put in place an experimental early review process with the purpose to make it easier to get \*early\* external review of documents in order to uncover serious problems before IETF last call or IESG Evaluation, to create awareness and get feedback on new concepts or to get more detailed review of specific areas where the WG doesn’t have deep expertise. More information, addresses of review teams, and some tracking information can be found on this Wiki page:  

<http://www1.tools.ietf.org/group/iesg/trac/wiki/EarlyExternalReview>
Currently the following documents are registered in the tracker and watched by the IESG liaison AD:


	* draft-iab-net-transparent-01.txt
	* draft-iab-iwout-report-00.txt
	* draft-iab-link-encaps-05.txt
	* draft-iab-dns-choices-04.txt
	* draft-iab-dos-05.txt – In AUTH48 – BCP? Informational?
	* draft-iab-link-indications-05.txt
	* draft-iab-multilink-subnet-issues-01.txt
	* draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt
	* draft-iab-raws-report-00.txt (new)


#### RFC Editor Report Sandy Ginoza


1. We have reorganized the RFC Editor webpages to make it more user friendly. We believe this is the beginning of some much needed and required revamping.
We realize this is not the last word on this subject, and that the new contract will call for quite a lot of additional web information pages. However, we believe that the new organization will provide a better basis for those extensions.
2. We reviewed comments from the IAB and IESG regarding our proposal to post unverified errata. We plan to start posting these errata this week, as we have not received objections that suggest not moving forward.
3. We responded to IANA feedback requesting the addition of the state MISSREF\*A\*R (indicating that a document has pending IANA actions as well as a normative reference that is not yet in the RFC Editor queue) in the RFC Editor “Current Queue” messages. This state has been added and should ease coordination and tracking between the RFC Editor and IANA queue.
4. The RFC Editor will be on holiday from December 25 – January 2, 2007. However, we will be reading email.


#### IRTF Report Aaron Falk


No report.


#### ISOC Report Lynn St. Amour


In November the ISOC Board approved ISOC’s 2007 Budget, which included meeting the IASA requirements in full (no surprise, but worthwhile stating clearly in any case).


### 9. AOB


No other business




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


