
Minutes  

IAB Teleconference  

January 4, 2006


1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes  

1.1 Agenda


 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, approval of minutes  

 2. Review of specific actions  

 3. Review of specific documents  

 4. Workshop plan  

 5. APRICOT plan  

 6. Upcoming IAB meetings  

 7. AOB


1.2 Attendance


PRESENT  

 Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Bernard Aboba  

 Loa Andersson  

 Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

 Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

 Patrik Fältström  

 Bob Hinden  

 Kurtis Lindqvist  

 David Meyer  

 Pekka Nikander  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Pete Resnick  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

 Lixia Zhang


ABSENT  

 Jonathan Rosenberg  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


2. Review of specific actions


ISOC BoT appointment timeline


Rich explained the revised timeline, which has the new IAB making its  

ISOC BoT selection after the March IETF. The IESG representatives  

noted that the timeline would give the IESG two chances to discuss the  

IAB’s choice, although it was also noted that the new IESG would still  

be getting up to speed. Rich took the action of drafting email  

announcing the timeline.


3. Review of specific documents


None were reviewed.


4. Workshop plan


The IAB reviewed the workshop agenda, focusing on the session  

structure and session chairs. The IAB agreed on the proposed  

structure. The IAB agreed that session chairs and scribes should have  

specific instructions if we are to get the desired output for the  

workshop report. The IAB considered making a audio recording of the  

workshop to aid scribing.


The IAB focused on the first session, discussing which potential  

participants might contribute to this session. The IAB scheduled  

another teleconference to finish the work with the remaining sessions.


Rich reported the results of his availablity ping of a few potential  

participants. As a result, the IAB agreed to move the workshop from  

Feb 15-17 to the week of March 6-10. Aaron volunteered to investigate  

ISI’s availability to host the meeting that week.


5. APRICOT plan


Kurtis agreed to ask Erik Nordmark if he could participate in the IAB  

session on IPv6 multihoming. Patrik stated that at this time he did  

not need more input for his session.


6. Upcoming IAB meetings


The IAB confirmed that January 18 is its next business meeting and January 25 is a tech chat on DHTs. Lixia, Eric, Pekka, and Jonathan are working on material for the tech chat. Lixia said she has a conflict on January 25. [In subsequent email discussion, the IAB agreed to start the January 25 tech chat early so Lixia can participate.] Eric agreed to circulate a plan for the tech chat.


7. AOB


The IAB discussed the IETF response to a liaison statement from the  

ITU asking about IPv6 standards planning. Margaret had asked Kurtis to  

write a response. Leslie asked for IAB volunteers to review the draft  

response and contribute text. Dave, Bob, Loa, and Pekka  

volunteered. Leslie took the action of talking further with Margaret  

and Scott Brim.


—


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves;  

comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org.


An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  

http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/


The IAB Web page is at http://www.iab.org


