
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**April 17, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)- [Future Call Times](#2)- [Review of Specific Documents](#3)- [Retreat Planning](#4)- [Executive Director Search](#5)- [Review of Handoff Items](#6)- [Liaisons](#7)- [Review of RFC Editor, IANA 2006 issue](#8)- [Net Neutrality](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson


Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Ted Hardie — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang


**Absent**  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Dave Oran


### 2. Call Time


New call time on Mondays will be affected by various holidays around the world, through the year. Tentative agreement to move back to Wednesday, subject to agreement from those who had potential conflicts. – Minutes for 3/15 are approved. Elwyn to post. – Minutes for 4/05 are deferred until next telechat.


### 3. Review of Specific Documents


#### draft-iab-idn-nextsteps


We’re ready to do a call for input on this.


#### Liaison Guidelines


The call for input on this has closed. Loa is dealing with comments.


### 4. Retreat Planning


Consensus on going to the Morrison House. General consensus on 3:00 end time on day 2. Leslie will enforce this aggressively. Don’t plan to leave out of IAD before 6.


### 5. Executive Director Search



The IAB had a good candidate pool and selected a candidate to make an offer to.


### 6. Review of hand off items


#### SSAC


General consensus on selecting Olaf for this position to replace PAF.


#### e164.arpa


General consensus on selecting Olaf to replace Patrik on the e164.arpa-contacts e-mail list at RIPE NCC.


### 7. Liaisons


#### OIF


Loa outlined that the IETF has no formalized relationship with OIF, although they make use of (and have made changes to) IETF protocols. Loa will continue discussion, with Routing ADs in the loop, and explore whether a formal liaison relationship would be helpful here.


#### 3gpp


Two additional candidates have been suggested and further discussion is needed.


#### MPEG


General consensus on selecting Stephan Wenger as liaison.


#### ITU-T E2E meeting


General consensus on sending Dave Oran in an informal role.


#### ITU Multilingual Meeting


General consensus that Pete Resnick would be a good person to go to the ITU/UNESCO Mulitlingualism symposium, and provide any necessary feedback to the IAB/IETF.


### 8. Review of RFC Editor, IANA 2006 situation


No objections to IAB saying they’re supportive of the TechSpec document.


### 9. Net Neutrality


Conclusion: we’re not ready for a phone call. Next task is for people to generate treatments for a full piece and put them up on the wiki for a directional reality check. Elwyn and Bernard are planning to generate some independent material by the 28th of April and put it on the Wiki.


