
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**September 20, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Update on Workshop](#2)
3. [ITU/IDN Effort](#3)
4. [OIF Letter](#4)
5. [IASA and ISOC BoT Appointments](#5)
6. [IAB Schedule for the Rest of 2006](#6)
7. [IETF Preparation](#7)
8. [Status of the IWOUT Report](#8)
9. [IAB Documents and the Draft Tracker](#9)
10. [Regular Reports](#10)
11. [AOB](#11)
12. [JFC Morfin Appeal](#12)
13. [Dean Anderson Appeal](#13)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair



**ABSENT**  

Loa Andersson  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of the September 6 business meeting.


### 2. Update on Workshop


The IAB discussed the development of the agenda for the workshop on the workshop mailing list. Individual IAB members agreed to encourage participants to discuss the agenda on the list. Phil agreed to post an update to the proposed agenda on the ML. Leslie agreed to circulate some proposed text for encouraging discussion on the ML.


The IAB discussed the mechanism for generating a report for this workshop. It was ageed to nominate reporters for each session who are responsible for generating a summary of their session at or shortly after the meeting. It was also agreed to propose an outline of a final report to the participants before the meeting so that folks will know how to frame what we are looking for before starting. Dave Meyer agreed to take responsibility for the workshop report.


Phil agreed to work with Henrik to determine whether it is possible to set up a private wiki for the participants in the workshop.


### 3. ITU/IDN effort


Leslie discussed the proposed text with Kurtis and agreed that the text is good. The text will refer to the RFC for the IDN Nextsteps document which will go into AUTH-48 today or tomorrow. As soon as the RFC number is assigned a formal note will be sent.


### 4. OIF Letter


The IAB deferred this item until the next meeting.


### 5. IAOC Appointment/ISOC


Phil agreed to produce a timeline for our IAOC and ISOC board appointments according to the process described in RFC 4333 and RFC 3677 respectively.


### 6. IAB Schedule for the rest of 2006


The IAB discussed its schedule for the rest of the year. It agreed to substitute a business meeting on October 26 instead of the techchat because of the timing of the Routing and Addressing Workshop. It also agreed to cancel the business meeting on the Wednesday after IETF.


### 7. IETF preparation


The IAB discussed plans for the week of IETF 67 including talks at the plenary.


### 8. Status of iwout report?


Lixia and Loa are almost done. Elwyn volunteered to review the draft of the report. The first draft report should be circulated on the workshop mailing list later this week.


### 9. IAB documents and the draft tracker


The IAB began discussing handling of IAB docs in the I-D Tool Tracker. More discussion is needed but Dan agreed to take over as IESG shepherd of the current IAB documents submitted for publication.


### 10. Regular Reports


#### IESG Liaison Report Dan Romascanu


* On August 29 the IESG received an appeal from Robert Sayre regarding the IESG decision to require a mandatory to implement HTTP authentication mechanism in the Atom Publishing Protocol –  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-from-robert-sayre-08-29-2006.txt>. The IESG is debating and working on a response to this appeal that would also take into account possible consequences to the activity of the Atom WG.
* On September 9 the IESG received an appeal from JFC Morfin ‘against decision within July 10 IESG appeal dismissal’ –  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/jfc-morfin-appeal-2006-09-10.txt>. On 9/15 the IESG responded that it considered the points in this appeal at the time of the original appeals and has found no new information or reasons to change its decision.
* The IESG continues to work on a response to the second part of the 8/17 appeal from JFC Morfin
* A proposal for a new charter for the EDU team was discussed and approved by the IESG. An announcement was sent to the IETF announcement list. Comments are welcome through October 2, preferably on the edu-discuss@ietf.org list


During the call Dan added that on the last point about edu team rechartering, requesting input or opinions on what they should do.


#### IRTF Aaron Falk


* Internet Congestion Control Research Group is planning an RG Meeting for February 6, 2007
* Network Management Research Group is planning a “Workshop on Future Directions on Network & Service Management” Oct 19 & 20, 2006 Utrecht, The Netherlands
* Internet Measurement Research Group is planning one or more workshop(s) on application identification via traffic analysis, Dates, locations TBD
* The OFFPATH BoF will likely result in an End-Middles-End Research Group; now finalizing the charter, chair roles, expect to form in next few weeks
* RRG is conducting a search for co-chair
* DTNRG, HIPRG, and RRG have requested meeting space in San Diego


#### RFC Editor Report Joyce K. Reynolds


* Since the RFC Editor has caught up with its backlog, the bottleneck has moved elsewhere.
* There is currently a backlog with AUTH 48 and the IANA. As of 19 September 2006, there are 46 documents queued in AUTH48 state, and 30 documents in IANA state.
* Regarding draft-iab-dos-05. The RFC Editor has draft-iab-dos-05 in its “EDIT” state. Three messages have been sent to the authors and cc’d to the IAB w.r.t. this RFC-to-be. We have received no response. As of tomorrow, September 20, it will be three weeks since our original correspondence, and one week since our last correspondence.
* The RFC Editor has received an email from Brian Carptenter for us to update the RFC boilerplate to read, “IETF Trust”, in place of “Internet Society”. We will do this.
* There has been an increase in independent submission documents to the RFC Editor that have been reviewed by IETF WGs, but the documents seem to be going around the WGs, and landing at the RFC Editor’s door. We have had discussions with the RFC Editor Editorial Board w.r.t. this issue. Many of these documents have been deemed, “bad ideas”. The RFC Editor is about to send a note to the IESG about our concerns.


#### ISOC Report Lynn St. Amour


No report.


### 11. AOB


No other business.


### 12. JFC Morfin Appeal


The IAB considered the JFC Morfin Appeal in executive session.


### 13. Dean Anderson Appeal


The IAB considered the Dean Anderson Appeal in executive session.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


