
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**October 25, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)- [Anycast, should the IAB do anything here?](#2)- [Update on Workshop](#3)- [Plan for the next week](#4)- [IETF Preparation](#5)- [Regular Reports](#6)- [AOB](#7)- [Executive Session](#8)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


**ABSENT**  

David Meyer  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair


#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of the October 4 business meeting.


### 2. Anycast, should the IAB do anything here?


Dave Oran and Eric Rescorla provided independent, individual input on draft-ietf-grow-anycast. Follow-up discussions evolved into whether there is a larger internet architecture issue that needs to be explored and documented. The IAB considered to what extent there is work it should do with respect to that question. Kurtis agreed to propose some text about what might be discussed so the IAB can revisit whether there is work to be done.


### 3. Update on workshop – 10 min


Dave Meyer, Lixia Zhang, and Kevin Fall are working to rapidly produce a report from the workshop. There will be a presentation about the workshop at the plenary and the joint IAB/IESG meeting during IETF-67.


### 4. Plan for the next week


Leslie brought up some issues that need our attention within the next week (whether to use the data tracker for IAB documents, responding to the RFC editor question about independent submissions coming from working groups, and the ICANN nomcom appointment) and that we need to resolve these over email if possible rather rapidly.


### 5. IETF preparation


The IAB discussed the technical plenary on Thursday night, IAB coverage of BOFs, and the technical discussion topic for the Sunday meeting. The technical plenary will include a report from the IAB workshop on unwanted traffic, a presentation about the workshop on routing and addressing, and the new document on transparency.


### 6. Regular reports


#### IESG Liaison Report Dan Romascanu


- On 10/16 the IESG responded to the appeal by Robert Sayre regarding ‘Mandatory to implement HTTP authentication mechanism in the Atom Publishing Protocol’. See the response at  

[http://bcp47.com/wgltru-recharter-appeal.pdf](http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-response-rsayre-10-16-2006.txt>http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/appeal-response-rsayre-10-16-2006.txt</a></p>
<p><li>On 10/24 the IESG received a mail from Jeffsey Morfin including an appeal concerning the WG-LTRU rechartering. The appeal is available at<br />
<a href=)(yet to show up on the IESG Web site)


2. During the 10/12 tele-conference the IESG discussed draft-carpenter-rescind-3683-02.txt (Progressive Posting Rights Suspension). The document if approved would restore the previous option of finite posting rights suspensions authorized by an Area Director and abolish the existing form of indefinite Posting Rights Action. The document remains under discussion by the IESG in order to resolve points raised by David Kessens
- The Network Endpoint Assessment (nea) and Handover Keying (hokey) Working Group charters were discussed in the 10/12 IESG teleconference. A second review message was sent for revised versions of each one of the charters, and the WG charters will be again on the agenda for the 10/26 teleconference.


Dan Romascanu added during the call that they are processing the second part of appeal from JFC Morfin from August, hoping to complete before San Diego


#### ISOC Report Lynn St. Amour


There will be an ISOC board meeting immediately after the next IETF. The ISOC board is discussing how to accommodate deeper discussion between the IETF leadership and the trustees. Over the next few weeks the ISOC is heavily involved in governance activities including IGF, the ITU plenipotentiary with the ITU world telecomms meeting to follow in January.


#### RFC Editor Report Sandy Ginoza


1. We of course miss Joyce’s council and expertise, but we are coping. We have taken the following steps:
	* I am currently acting as the RFC Editor liaison to the IAB and IESG.
	* Alice and I are performing the final quality control review.
	* We are working with 2 temp copy editors who are making significant contributions to our queue.
	* We are working on hiring a new editor.- We are ready to publish   

with the new boilerplate. We will begin using this new boilerplate 11/01/06.


Sandy added during the call that the iab mailing list is now added to the queue summary mailing list.


#### IRTF Report Aaron Falk


* EMMERG creation on hold pending selection of co-chair. A likely candidate has been identified, selection is pending an interview scheduled for next week.
* P2PRG and RRG are engaging in some soul searching on finding new energy, focus
* HIPRG also considering more explicit focus on scoped experimentation; SD meeting has been cancelled
* Received initial contact from Ron Bonica regarding possible work on source address verification (SAVA); planning an informal chat in San Diego (IAB, IRSG members are welcome to join in)
* RGs meeting in San Diego: MobOpts, RRG, DTNRG


#### ICANN Nomcom Report John Klensin


As you probably know, the ICANN nominating committee completed the core of its work in mid-September. We are now awaiting confirmations and background checks before announcing the names of the selected parties “no later than a month before the ICANN General Meeting”, i.e., on or before 8 November. See [http://www.icann.org/announcements/announcement-18sep06.htm](https://www.icann.org/announcements/announcement-18sep06.htm).


Like the IETF’s version, the Nomcom doesn’t actual expire and get let off the hook until after that meeting.


This year, ICANN is trying to get the Nomcom selected and its work started as soon as the Annual General Meeting ends. That means they want the appointments for next year’s version soon, and the selected person should be prepared to attend the ICANN meeting in Sao Paulo the first week in December. If the IAB has not received an official request on this subject, consider this to be it.


### 7. AOB


No other business




---


### 8. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the RFC Editor RFP response, the Todd Glassey complaints, and the JFC Morfin appeal.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](index.html)


