
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**October 4, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Update on Workshop](#2)
3. [Anycast](#3)
4. [Optical Interworking Forum](#4)
5. [IAOC Appointment/ISOC BoT Appointment](#5)
6. [Deployment of Experimental Congestion Control](#6)
7. [\*.travel Discussion](#7)
8. [IETF-67 Planning](#8)
9. [Review of Actions](#9)
10. [Review of Documents](#10)
11. [AOB](#11)
12. [Executive Session](#12)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director



**ABSENT**  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of September 20 business meeting.


### 2. Update on Workshop


The IAB discussed the organization for the upcoming workshop on routing and addressing. Moderators for each of the sessions were identified. Updated agenda indicating moderators was published to the workshop mailing list, and workshop participants have been granted access to the workshop wiki. The moderators are to start organizing the presenters and presentations in their individual sessions, assigning background reading, and finding session reporters.


### 3. Anycast


IAB members had deferred discussion of and comment on draft-ietf-grow-anycast-04 while Dean Anderson had an active appeal to the IAB. Dave Oran and Eric Rescorla noted they had just provided some input, as individuals, to the IESG on the document.


### 4. OIF


The IAB agreed to a message for the Optical Internetworking Forum. Loa and Leslie will work on sending the message.


### 5. IAOC Appointment/ISOC BoT Appointments


Discussion of the timeline for these appointments was deferred to the next business meeting.


### 6. Deployment of experimental congestion control


Deferred to the next business meeting.


### 7. \*.travel discussion


The proposal for a new .travel TLD includes a requirement for a wildcard in the TLD zone. This has been done in the past. In 2003 the IAB commented on architectural concerns re: the use of DNS wildcards  

[http://www.iab.org/documents/docs/2003-09-20-dns-wildcards.html](/documents/docs/2003-09-20-dns-wildcards.html). The statements is still valid from the IAB point of view. Olaf will work out how to send an appropriate message to the ICANN committee evaluating the proposal with a reference to it.


### 8. IETF-67 preparation


The IAB reviewed its plan for the Thursday plenary and began to discuss its own agenda for the week of IETF-67.


### 9. Review of Actions


Nothing to discuss at this time.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 10. Review of Documents


Deferred.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 11. AOB


None




---


### 12. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the status of the RFC editor RFP, the JFC Morfin appeal, and the Todd Glassey IETF mailing list suspension complaint.




---


### Appendix A – Action Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle   

**Initiated:** February 2006   

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.   

**Old Status:** IAB needs to publish its timeline in November, so defer until late September / early October.  

**New Status:** Phil agreed to produce proposed timelines of this and the ISOC BoT appointments.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc   

**Initiated:** October 2005   

**Status:** Minutes circulated. Next step: Loa & Lixia to draft report. 


#### Mobility Document or other


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang   

**Initiated:** May 2006   

**Goal:** Review the status of mobility issues and propose an IAB-sized piece to tackle (if any). 


#### IAB RAW Workshop


**Assigned to:** DMM  

**Initiated:** March 2006  

**Goal:** To have a workshop to address routing issues in the Internet  

**Status:** DMM and Lixia will prepare a proposal on goals, topics, and agenda by 9/13/2006.


#### RAW Workshop Wiki


**Assigned to:** Phil  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:** To have a wiki that workshop participants can use in prepartiong for the upcoming workshop.




---


### Appendix B – Documents


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt>   

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** Olaf and PAF will make a final review.


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla   

**Initiated:** April 2002   

**Old Status:** Comments from Sam & others received.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>(expired)   

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang and Dave Oran  

**Initiated:** April 2004   

**Old status:** Dave Oran and Lixia agreed to renew this effort.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** -05 submitted with comments incorporated.


#### GSE History


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang   

**Initiated:** December 2005   

**Old status:** Article for IETF Journal produced, Lixia will convert that into an I-D form.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old Status:** Version -02 published. Feedback received from IEEE 802.1 & 802.16 (all positive so far).


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old status:** Version -01 published.  

**New status:** Last call will be sent.



These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


