
Minutes
IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------


**IETF 66**  

**July 9-14, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Multiple Encapsulations Considered Harmful](#2)
3. [Routing and Addressing Workshop](#3)
4. [IAB Plenary Planning](#4)
5. [Where does the IAB go from here](#5)
6. [Appointment of IAB Liaison to Nomcom](#6)
7. [Dean Anderson Appeal](#7)
8. [Updated Status on Documents](#8)
9. [Discussion of the Outcome of the IAB Workshop on Unwanted Traffic](#9)
10. [Topic of Next Techchat](#10)
11. [Schedule of August Business Meetings](#11)
12. [Research Group Review: Delay Tolerant Networking](#12)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair



**ABSENT**  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor


### 2. Multiple Encapsulations Consdired Harmful


Bernard gave more context on the document including the history of the distinctions between Ethernet and IEEE 802 handling in early RFCs, and a review of the nature of the multiple encapsulations issue within the 802.16 set of standards. The agreed upon action is to press ahead with the Multiple Encapsulations document. It has already been circulated with IEEE 802 for comment.


### 3. Routing and Addressing Workshop


The IAB discussed coming to closure on time, space, and the attendee list.


### 4. IAB Plenary Planning


The IAB discussed the handling of the agenda at the plenary. It was agreed that the discussion of the RFC editor process was an IAB discussion and would be part of the IAB plenary when the IAB is present on the stage. The independent submissions process discussion is a separate topic and would be discussed on its own separate agenda item, a plenary topic but not an IAB plenary topic.


### 5. Where does the IAB go from here


The IAB agreed that the top-level items to address this year are:


- routing and addressing
- edge challenges
- internet architecture for all  

### 6. Appointment of IAB Liaison to Nomcom


Olaf agreed to be the IAB Liaison to the 2007 Nomcom


### 7. Dean Anderson Appeal


The IAB went into executive session and concluded the discussion of the Dean Anderson appeal with a vote on the proposed text of the response. The appeal response was supported by all voting members except Eric Rescorla who abstained.


### 8. Updated Status on Documents


Eric agreed to last editorial rev on DOS doc before publication.


Lixia agreed to make progress on GSE history before the end of the month.


Lixia and Dave Oran agreed to begin moving Untangling Activeware document forward.


### 9. Discussion of the Outcome of the IAB Workshop on Unwanted Traffic


Phil and Leslie agreed to find a spot on the public IAB website to put up the presentations to the workshop that were agreed to be public. Lixia and Loa have a report that is taking shape and that also will be made public on the IAB workshop after it is reviewed and approved by the workshop attendees. Some of the presentation material was quite sensitive and an agreement was made to limit circulation of the minutes of the workshop to the members of the workshop and that agreement will be upheld.


### 10. Topic of Next Techchat


The IAB agreed that the topic of the July techchat is the context for the NEA discussions that are going on around the NEA BOF.


Kurtis volunteered to lead a discussion on Anycast during the August techchat.


### 11. Schedule of August Business Meetings


Phil agreed to put together a couple of alternate proposals for the business meetings in August taking into account folks vacation schedules.


### 12. Research Group Review: Delay Tolerant Networking


The IAB reviewed the IRTF Delay Tolerant Networking Research Group’s work.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)

