
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**November 1, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [RFC Editor question about submissions coming out of working groups](#2)
3. [Experimental Congestion Control?](#3)
4. [Liaison Discussion/Appointments](#4)
5. [IETF Preparation](#5)
6. [Review of Specific Actions](#6)
7. [Review of Specific Documents](#7)
8. [AOB](#8)
9. [JFC Morfin Appeal](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director



**ABSENT**  

Kevin Fall  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of October 25 business meeting.


### 2. RFC Editor question about submissions coming out of working groups


The RFC Editor requested advice from the IAB about how to handle individual submissions from that came out of working groups but that working groups chose not to publish as products of the working groups. Brian called attention to  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iesg-sponsoring-guidelines-00.txt>  

but according to Bob Braden it doesn’t cover this case. The IAB discussed several issues with these sorts of documents including 1) how to accurately record information about the status of the documents 2) what standard of technical review these receive or not and 3) how to go about getting the technical review. Regarding 1) if the RFC editor is going to publish such a document it is important to record whether there were technical reasons it wasn’t chosen and what those are; and it is important also to make clear the actual status of the document with respect to the IETF process. The specific documents in question are protocol proposals to CAPWAP that were not chosen. Bob Braden agreed to propose some text to the WG chairs of CAPWAP about how to handle the specific documents. The larger discussion will be held on the independent mailing list. Leslie agreed to forward some text she put together some time ago.


### 3. Deployment of experimental congestion control?


<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-floyd-cc-alt-00.txt>



Lars requested guidance from the IAB on the issue of when it is appropriate to enable experimental congestion control mechanisms in the Internet. Lars Eggert proposes to have a meeting at IETF 67 to discuss how to handle this. The IAB agreed to let Lars know that a few IAB members will be at the meeting in IETF 67 and to decide whether there needs to be a broader IAB action after assessing the discussion at the meeting.


### 4. Liaison discussion / appointments


Mark Townsley helped create a document describing a liaison relationship with cable labs. Dave Oran agreed to review the document and carry the action for the IAB on whether to set up such a liaison.


### 5. IETF preparation


The IAB discussed preparations for the technical plenary and making sure the various proposed BOFs have IAB coverage.


### 6. Review of Specific Actions


* Use of draft-tracker for IAB documents
The IAB discussed whether depending more on the draft tracker for administration of its documents is a worthwhile endeavor. The topic needs some research. Phil, Dan, and Leslie agreed to meet to discuss during IETF-67.
* ICANN nomcom appointment
The IAB needs to appoint a member of the ICANN nomcom. This is an important job, especially this year, when the ICANN NomCom has to fill slots being left by ICANN Board Chair and very IETF-aware board member, Vint Cerf.. The IAB agreed to discuss some possible candidates during IETF-67.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 7. Review of Documents


* IAB document now for DNS wildcards?
The IAB discussed whether there have been enough occasions now to warrant the publication of an IAB document on this topic. Recently there was some discussion on the IETF list about recursive servers and a wireless ISP that changes answers on the fly. We might also want to capture this together with the sitefinder doc in an RFC. Olaf will report after IETF.
* new document on TCP behavior with anycast/mobility?
Kurtis has the token to produce a proposal on this
* Fred Baker’s multihoming scalability doc?  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-baker-v6ops-l3-multihoming-analysis-00.txt>
Fred requested feedback from the IAB on this document. Kurtis and Dave Meyer will attend the v6 ops meeting on Monday and report on the discussion there.
* Olaf’s document on appeal support  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-kolkman-appeal-support-00.txt>
The IAB discussed this document and agreed it is better for it not to be an IAB document but if the document gains traction within the community the IAB will consider whether it is important for it to provide a formal review.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 8. AOB


None.


### 9. JFC Morfin Appeal


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the JFC Morfin appeal.




---


### Appendix A – Action Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** February 2006   

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.   

**Old Status:** Phil agreed to produce proposed timelines of this and the ISOC BoT appointments.  

**New Status:** IAOC appointment timeline agreed to. Next step, send out announcement of the selection process.


#### ISOC BoT Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:**Handle the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees  

**Status:**Proposed timeline sent to ML with comments requested.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc   

**Initiated:** October 2005   

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old Status:** Minutes circulated. Next step: Loa & Lixia to draft report.   

**New Status:** draft-00 of workshop report published


#### Mobility Document or other


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang   

**Initiated:** May 2006   

**Goal:** Review the status of mobility issues and propose an IAB-sized piece to tackle (if any). 


#### IAB RAW Workshop


**Assigned to:** DMM  

**Initiated:** March 2006  

**Goal:** To have a workshop to address routing issues in the Internet  

**Old Status:** DMM and Lixia will prepare a proposal on goals, topics, and agenda by 9/13/2006.  

**New Status:** Workshop held, draft report in progress


#### RAW Workshop Report


**Assigned to:** DMM  

**Initiated:** Sep 2006  

**Goal:** To produce a report on the workshop in a timely manner  

**Status:** Initiated


#### RAW Workshop Wiki


**Assigned to:** Phil  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:** To have a wiki that workshop participants can use in prepartiong for the upcoming workshop.  

**Old Status:**Henrik set up a private wiki on tools, Phil will talk to Henrik about its use next week  

**New Status:**Workshop wiki in use by workshop participants


#### Data Tracker for IAB docs


**Assigned to:** Phil  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** Produce a plan in November; complete execution in December




---


### Appendix B – Document Status


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt>   

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** Olaf and PAF will make a final review.


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla   

**Initiated:** April 2002   

**Old Status:** Comments from Sam & others received.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>(expired)   

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang and Dave Oran  

**Initiated:** April 2004   

**Old status:** Dave Oran and Lixia agreed to renew this effort.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** -05 submitted with comments incorporated.


#### GSE History


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang   

**Initiated:** December 2005   

**Old status:** Article for IETF Journal produced, Lixia will convert that into an I-D form.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old Status:** Version -02 published. Feedback received from IEEE 802.1 & 802.16 (all positive so far).


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old status:** Version -01 published.  

**New status:** Last call will be sent.



These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


