
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**September 6, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Update on Workshop](#2)
3. [Discussion of Interaction with ITU on Internationalized Domain Names](#3)
4. [Optical Interworking Forum](#4)
5. [Liaison to the ITU for MPLS](#5)
6. [IETF Preparation](#6)
7. [Review of Action Items](#7)
8. [Review of Documents](#8)
9. [AOB](#9)
10. [JFC Morfin Appeal](#10)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG



**ABSENT**  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### Approval of Minutes


The IAB approved the minutes of the August 30 telechat.


### 2. Update on Workshop


The IAB discussed the upcoming workshop on routing and addressing. Invitations have been sent and final responses are due this week. There are only a handful of people who we haven’t heard from. Lixia and Dave Meyer agreed to produce proposed text to share with the workshop mailing list on goals, topics, and agenda by next Wednesday.


### 3. Discussion of interaction with ITU on Internationalized Domain Names


Kurtis will write a proposal for the IAB to consider.


### 4. Optical Internetworking Forum (OIF)


The IAB discussed some proposals for interacting with the OIF to make sure there doesn’t end up being multiple incompatible protocols with the same identifier. Loa has some proposed text. Phil will set up a poll on the private website this week for folks to review and make suggestions. The poll will run one week.


### 5. Liaison to ITU for MPLS


The IAB has chosen to make Loa Anderson the MPLS liaison to the ITU. Phil will send notes to the appropriate folks and have the secretariat update the website.


### 6. IETF preparation


The IAB began preparing for IETF 67.


### 7. Review of Specific Actions


Lixia and Loa agreed to produce a first draft of the report for the Unwanted Traffic Workshop by next Wednesday.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 8. Review of Specific Documents (Getting a status update on all of our documents)


#### Design Choices when Expanding DNS


Olaf will review the document with Patrik Faltstrom to determine whether any more edits are needed.


#### A survey of authentication mechanism


Eric will work through the outstanding issues and run a new version by the IAB with a goal of getting the new version before IETF 67


#### Untangling Activeware


Dave Oran and Lixia are working on the topic in preparation for the next tech chat so should produce a version before that.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


Bernard should have a new version out this week that should have addressed all comments


#### Principles of IP configuration


Lixia and Dave T will take a look at the latest version and send comments to the IAB list.


#### GSE History (Lixia)


The IAB discussed whether this document is still needed given that there is an IETF journal article now. It seems to make sense to have an RFC documenting this as reference to the work keeps coming up and it would be beneficial to have a document in our archive. Not clear whether it will be an IAB doc or an individual doc, but Lixia will produce one and we’ll see how it looks once the doc is available.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


Have received positive feedback from 802.1 and 802.16. It is appropriate to ask IETF for comment at this point. Leslie will send out the usual call for comment.


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


Leslie will Leslie will review status of the document; the IAB expressed support for soliciting final community input and putting the document for publication..


#### Dave T’s multilink subnets draft


Dave, Bernard, and Lixia will discuss this week and get a new version out.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 9. AOB


None.


### 10. JFC Morfin Appeal


The IAB entered executive session to consider the JFC Morfin appeal.




---


### Appendix A Action Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:** February 2006  

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.  

**Status:** IAB needs to publish its timeline in November, so defer until late September / early October.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old status:**Minutes circulated. Next step: Loa and Lixia to draft report.


#### Mobility Document or other


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  

**Initiated:** May 2006  

**Goal:** Review the status of mobility issues and propose an IAB-sized piece to tackle (if any).




---


### Appendix B Documents


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old status:** Olaf talked to PAF and asked Olafur to push draft-ietf-dnsext-rfc2929bis to last call. That document makes RR types allocation easier and choices benefits from that.  

**New status:** Olaf and PAF will make a final review.


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** April 2002  

**Old status:** Comments from Sam & others received.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  
   

Initiated: April 2004  

**Old status:** Dave Oran and Lixia agreed to renew this effort.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-04.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old status:** -05 submitted with comments incorporated.


#### Principles of IP Configuration


**Link:** [http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-config-00.txt](http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-config-00.txt)  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Old status:** IAB review solicited.


#### GSE History


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Old status:** Missed the initial deadline but work in progress.  

**New status:** Article for IETF Journal produced, Lixia will convert that into an I-D form.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:** <http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** April 2006  

**Old status:** Version -02 published. Feedback requested from 802  

**New Status:** Version -02 published. Feedback received from IEEE 802.1 & 802.16 (all positive so far).  

**Next step:**IETF review.


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:**April 2006  

**Old Status:**Version -01 published.  

**New status:**Last call will be sent.



These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


