
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**April 5, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of Specific Actions](#2)
3. [Retreat Planning](#3)
4. [Executive Director](#4)
5. [IAB Minutes from IETF](#5)
6. [Other Business](#6)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Bernard Aboba  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lixia Zhang  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair


**Absent**  

Loa Anderson  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### 1.3 Minutes


Rich Draves circulated minutes from the prior meeting earlier, so no minutes to approve this time.


#### 1.4 Agenda Modifications


Dave M. brought up the issue of planning for a routing & addressing workshop. Suggestion to place this in other business in the agenda


### 2. Review of Specific Actions


#### 2.1 IAB Telecom Times


The telecon will move to 8-10am Pacific time Monday for tech chats (4th mondays) and 8.30am-10am (1st and 3rd monday) for business meetings.


The first meeting on this “new schedule” would be Apr 17


Elwyn will commit to update the IAB site with meeting details and will also investigate iCal capability there.


### 3. Retreat Planning


The tentative retreat date is set for May 29/30, most likely on the US east coast. Generally, IAB members would prefer easy access to an international airport, internet connections, yet some “calm”. Washington DC is currently the leading best guess for venue.


Aaron F. and Dave M. (w/help from Eric) will investigate the options and provide a suggestion by April 14.


### 4. Executive Director


Richard Draves has requested to discontinue being IAB executive director. The IAB is seeking volunteers and names that might be interested in the position. IAB will send a note to the IETF list indicating the open position. http://www.ietf.org/u/ietfchair/Jan06retreat.txt


### 5. IAB Minutes from IETF


Lixia and Elwyn will coordinate with Richard D. to finalize the IETF-week IAB notes into minutes.


### 6. Other Business


#### Routing and Addressing Workshop


There is a desire to hold a workshop to examine a number of issues related to global Internet routing (and possibly its relationship to addressing). Dave M. is constructing a web page and wiki with the basis for this discussion.


The first issue is to construct a problem statement, which Dave M. is presently working on with others.


#### Liaisons


summary:


1 new liaison discussion


2 requests for change


1 question from a liaison to look at


Loa has documented further thoughts about whether the IAB should set up an IETF liaison with OIF. IAB members should review that material and we will revisit on the next call with Loa.


Thomas Narten would like to retire from being IETF’s 3GPP liaison; IAB will consider with input from IESG.


Steve Casner has requested to be replaced as the IETF liaison to the MPEG committee (ISO SG29/WG11) by Stephan Wenger. IAB will seek further input from Transport and RAI AD’s.


Patrik Fältström has been a connection point between ICANN and IAB related to security (SSAC). Patrik has suggested Olaf to continue on in this capacity. Leslie will take the discussion to the IAB e-mail discussion list.


There are some upcoming ITU meetings (e.g. multilingualism, e2e QoS) that may be of interest to IETF although we have no single official liaison. IETF people may participate in ITU as individuals; no general change.


#### Tech Chat


The next tech chat is nominally scheduled for Apr 24, but this is when several folks will be at RIPE in Istanbul. There was some discussion regarding moving it or rescheduling it but agreement was not reached. It will be discussed further on the mailing list.


#### UNICODE Consortium Reply


Patrik Fältström has drafted a reply to the Unicode Consortium. There are no objecttions and it was agreed to send his draft reply as an official reponse with Leslie D. as primary signer and Olaf as technical point of contact.


#### Net Neutrality


Concern was expressed at the Dallas IETF meeting and on the IAB mailing list that the IETF/IAB might wish to take a position on the current issue of ‘network neutrality.’ At present, there is not clear agreement on the exact definition of this term, and there is also some reason to believe that any position on it might best be related through ISOC. It was agreed to begin work on this issue by assembling reading material to be placed on an IAB wiki page. Kevin will do this.


#### ISOC Board Appointment


The IAB voting members agreed to recommend an individual for this position subject to confirmation by IESG.




---


Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


