
Minutes  

IAB Teleconference  

January 18, 2006


1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes  

1.1 Agenda


 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes  

 2. Review of specific actions  

 3. Review of specific documents  

 4. Regular Reports  

 5. NomCom / Confirmation planning  

 6. 802.1 liaison?  

 7. Note from Ran Atkinson re. input to USPTO  

 8. Workshop planning  

 9. APRICOT plan  

 10. IETF Journal  

 11. Network stories  

 12. Upcoming IAB meetings  

 13. AOB


1.2 Attendance


PRESENT  

 Bernard Aboba  

 Loa Andersson  

 Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

 Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

 Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

 Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

 Bob Hinden  

 David Meyer  

 Pekka Nikander  

 Eric Rescorla  

 Pete Resnick  

 Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

 Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

 Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

 Lixia Zhang


ABSENT  

 Patrik Faltstrom  

 Kurtis Lindqvist  

 Jonathan Rosenberg


1.3 Previous Minutes


December 21 minutes were approved.


2. Review of specific actions


ISOC BoT appointment timeline


There were a couple changes suggested for Rich’s draft. Rich will circulate revised version later today for Leslie to post to ietf-announce.


3. Review of specific documents


Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


The IAB discussed several minor issues with the document. Leslie asked  

Loa to release the -01 revision to the I-D repository.


Untangling Activeware


Leslie noted that the IAB needs to decide what it is doing with this  

document.


4. Regular Reports


ISOC Liaison Report  

Lynn St. Amour


 – ISOC’s next Board meeting will be held February 10th and 11th in  

 Utrecht, NL (just outside Amsterdam). It is an open meeting and  

 the agenda will be posted soon.


 – IETF 20th anniversary – ISOC has engaged Susan Estrada to work  

 with the IETF community to develop activities to celebrate the  

 IETF’s 20th anniversary. She is working with a committee and  

 will present a plan to the IETF and IAB Chairs and to the ISOC  

 CEO.


 – Internet Governance Forum – (follow-on to the earlier WGIG/WSIS  

 efforts). There will be a consultation for all interested parties  

 on February 16th and 17th in Geneva. ISOC will be attending and  

 have asked to have a key role in any forum that is convened.


IRTF Chair Report  

Aaron Falk


 – Planning IAB review of ASRG in Dallas


 – Planning plenary talk by new E2E RG co-chair, Craig Partridge,  

 in Dallas based on recent E2E article in CCR, “Making the World  

 (of Communications) a Better Place”


 – Developing RG document publication proposal based on pull from  

 HIPRG, MOBOPTS, and ASRG


 – Expecting a bar-bof for Scalable Small Group Multicast RG  

 proponents Sunday night in Dallas (invitation enclosed)


 – Received proposed charter for a MANET RG. Scope include  

 multicast, expanded routing metrics (e.g., QoS), and simulation  

 strategies/best practices.


 – A little concerned about lack of activity in ICCRG, several  

 prods appear ineffective.


 – Attending workshop on ‘Protocols for Fast, Long-Distance  

 Networks’ in Nara, Japan early Feb and giving report on TMRG  

 draft.


RFC Editor Report  

Joyce Reynolds


 – The RFC Editor has a contract in place for 2006 with the IAD/IASA.


 – We have installed an initial implementation of automated emails  

 to notify authors of RFC State changes.


 An example:


 Date: Wed, 11 Jan 2006 12:26:03 -0800  

 Subject: [RFC State]  has changed state  

 To: tnadeau@cisco.com, subrah@cisco.com  

 Cc: fenner@research.att.com, zinin@psg.com,  

 rfc-editor@rfc-editor.org  

 From: rfc-editor@rfc-editor.org


 The document draft-ietf-mpls-lc-if-mib-08 has changed from  

 EDIT state to RFC-EDITOR state. We thought you’d like to  

 know. You can check on your document’s status at  

.


IESG Liaison Report  

Bert Wijnen


 – as posted to the IETF Announce list (Jan 5th):  

 The IESG has decided that as of now, any IESG-approved  

 drafts that enter the AUTH48 state, where the RFC Editor  

 waits for final text approval from all listed authors,  

 may be released on the responsible AD’s authority if  

 any authors have not responded after a reasonable time,  

 typically two weeks.


 – Also posted to the IETF Announce list (Jan 5th), the  

 IESG has decided to take an RFC 3683 PR-Action for Dean  

 Anderson. See announcement for details.


 – The IESG has received another appeal from Jefsey Morfin.  

 This time he appeals the IESG decision to approve the  

 rfc3066bis draft. For details, see:  

 http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/jefsey-morfin-appeal.txt


 – The IESG intends to issue an IETF Last Call to solicit  

 input and comments on a possible PR-Action (RFC3683) against  

 Jefsey Morfin. This action was requested from IESG by Harald  

 Alvestrand based on input Harald has collected.


 – The IESG is working on selecting the best candidate for the  

 IESG-appointed seat on the IAOC for the next 2 years. As was  

 announced to the IETF Announce list (Jan 3rd), we only have  

 2 candidates to choose from.


 – The IESG did have an extra (informal) telechat on Jan 12th.  

 This was to try and clear several documents that have been  

 pending for approval for a long time. This first extra session  

 was useful and also triggered discussions and follow up on the  

 IESG mailing list. Several discussion were cleared and analyzed  

 in much more detail. Also a number of documents got approved as  

 a result of this extra attention to old documents.  

 The IESG plans to have a few more of these extra (informal)  

 telechats to try and clear more of these types of documents.  

 The next one is scheduled for Jan 26th.


 – As reported earlier, the IESG will have an efficiency retreat  

 on Jan 30-31 where we will try to evaluate and improve our  

 efficiency.


IEEE 802 Liaison Report  

Bernard Aboba


(See http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ieee/2005-12-ieee802-liaison-report.html.)


ITU SG15 (Optical Networking) Liaison Report  

Adrian Farrel


(See http://www.iab.org/liaisons/sg15/2005-12-18.html.)


5. NomCom / Confirmation planning


Dave reported that the nomcom is still working on one area for the  

IESG slate and that the IAB slate is progressing as well. Leslie noted  

that the IESG is anxious to know their replacements to start handoff  

before the IETF meeting. Brian noted that this was particular  

important for the new RAI area. Leslie asked if those new ADs can  

perhaps be confirmed/released early. Dave said the nomcom is sensitive  

to this but wants to avoid disclosure of derived information. Leslie  

noted that the IAB expects to see the entire IESG slate before  

confirming any part of it. Leslie noted that IAB members who were  

under consideration for the IESG will recuse themselves from  

confirmation of those positions and those positions will be handled  

first.


Leslie reviewed the IAB’s procedures for confirming candidates  

(http://www.iab.org/documents/docs/2003-12-09-iab-confirmation-process.html).  

Most notably, there must be a positive vote for confirmation, the IAB  

chair can not call the vote earlier than a week after receiving the  

slate, and not before a telechat to discuss. The IAB agreed to follow  

these procedures unless the IAB unamimously agrees to override. The  

IAB tentatively scheduled a telechat for Feb 8 to discuss the IESG  

slate.


6. 802.1 liaison?


Bernard stated that he has no obvious candidates for IEEE 802.1  

liaison. Bernard suggested that the IAB use the process suggested by  

David Kessens and take nominations from the community. Leslie felt  

this would be generally heavy-weight but appropriate here because  

Bernard had not found someone yet. Rich agreed to draft a note to the  

community, working with Bernard.


7. Note from Ran Atkinson re. input to USPTO


The IAB discusses Ran Atkinson’s suggestion that the IETF provide  

input to the USPTO and like organizations regarding prior art. The IAB  

noted that the IETF does not have an official archive of drafts. The  

IAB agreed that the idea has merit but doing something hasty would not  

be good; currently we can only point to the RFC archive.


8. Workshop planning


Leslie reviewed the invitee status. The IAB agreed to ping folks who  

have not yet responded. The IAB also discussed inviting several  

additional folks, including more people with network access product  

experience and empirical studies to share.


9. APRICOT plan


Dave said nothing further needed for his session, although he needed  

to follow-up with Erik Nordmark regarding his participation. Leslie  

said she’d been invited to participate in an APNIC policy session.  

Sentiment in the IAB did not favor this because there is the  

possibility of it being a political minefield. Leslie said she would  

review the request and make a proposal to the IAB list.


10. IETF Journal


Leslie noted that there as been some discussion on the iab list of the  

proposed charter for the IETF Journal, but deferred more discussion to  

a future meeting.


11. Network stories


The IAB deferred this agenda item to a future meeting, due to lack of  

time. Bernard noted the genesis of this agenda item was a request from  

Tim Shepard asking how everything happening in the internet area fit  

together into scenarios or stories.


12. Upcoming IAB meetings


Leslie noted that Jan 25 is the next tech chat and Feb 1 is the next  

business meeting. The IAB discussed the success of its  

two-meetings-per-month schedule. Most thought it was an improvement  

but Rich and Leslie felt that it added significantly to their  

workload. Eric noted that the perl support on i1b.org prevented him  

from installing his preferred bug-tracker software. The IAB agreed to  

try using a wiki instead to track action and document status. Rich  

asked Aaron to prototype this. Leslie noted that easy cut-and-paste  

from the wiki to text minutes is a hard requirement.


13. AOB


The IAB briefly discussed the status of the Jefsey Morfin appeal  

response. Two IAB members are drafting a response, ready for review at  

the end of the week. The IAB agreed that the response is not moot even  

if Jefsey’s suspension is over.


—


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves;  

comments should be sent to iab-execd@iab.org.


An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  

http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/


The IAB Web page is at http://www.iab.org


