
Minutes
IAB at IETF 65
----------------------


**March 19-24, 2006**




---


### Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### Agenda


1. [Year in Review](#1)
2. [IAB Internal Appointments](#2)
3. [Clarification of RFC3777 regarding IAB vacancies](#3)
4. [Workshop planning: tackling the problem of routing and addressing](#4)
5. [Work items handover](#5)
6. [IAB plenary session planning](#6)
7. [IRTF ASRG report](#7)
8. [IAB retreat planning](#8)


#### Attendance


**Present**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Kevin Fall  

Patrik Faltstrom  

Bob Hinden  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director David Oran


### 1. Year in Review



The IAB reviewed major activities over the previous year, which include (1) IPv6 multihoming BOF road shows to collect input from operational community; have done NANOG and APRICOT, RIPE next.  

(2) continuing efforts in articulating architectural development, published a number of documents  

– RFC 4101: Writing Protocol Models  

– RFC 4417: Report of the 2004 IAB Messaging Workshop  

– RFC 4367: What’s in a Name: False Assumptions about DNS Names  

Also started a new mailing list on network architectures.  

(3) Organized a successful unwanted traffic workshop.


### 2. IAB Internal Appointments


#### IAB Chari


Leslie Daigle was elected to serve for the next year.


#### IAB Executive Director


Potential candidates were discussed, but no decision was made during this meeting.


#### IAB Liaison to the IESG


The role of the liaison to the IESG was discussed, some new IAB members announced interest in undertaking the role. The decision is to let Dave Meyer continue the liaison appointment for next few months till new IAB members come up to speed.


### 3. Clarification of RFC3777 respecting IAB vacancies


Nomcom asked the IAB their view of the length of the term to be served by the replacement member to fill the vacancy caused by Pekka Nikander’s resignation.


RFC3777 states that if the time at which the vacancy occurs is after the first IETF meeting of the year, the appointment of the replacement should be for 2 years. However it did not state whether the time at which the vacancy occurs refers to the start of the vacancy, or when the vacancy is filled. IAB suggested that this ambiguity should be clarified in next round of revision. Meanwhile the IAB asked the nomcom to proceed with a one-year appointment this time, assuming the rule applies to the starting time of the vacancy.


### 4. IETF IANA Technical Parameter Assignment Situation


IAB discussed Dave Meyer’s proposal to make routing and addressing the subject of the next IAB workshop. How to build a scalable routing infrastructure has been a long standing issue. A subcommittee was formed with the task of formulating a problem statement as input to the workshop planning process.


### 5. Work Items Handover


Handover from “old” to “new” IAB occurred during IETF 65. As part of this responsibility for a number of items in progress was tranferred: – Lixia took over the NAT considerations draft from Jonathan. – Olaf took over IDN related responsibility from Patrik, though he would contine to lean on Patrik and Pete’s help in the area.


### 6. IAB Plenary Session Planning


Vint Cerf sent in a video containing congratulations on the IETF’s 20th birthday, which would be played during the “coming up on stage” period. In anticipation of increasing interest in P2P technologies, Eric Rescorla was to present an Introduction to Distributed Hash Tables, covering their use in ‘content’ networks and providing an overview of security issues associated with these P2P systems. IRTF picked E2E RG to present this time. A further decision was taken that folks should not bring their laptops on stage at the plenary.


### 7. IRTF Anti-Spam Research Group


ASRG Chair John Levine presented a review of the ASRG at the IAB breakfast meeting on March 23. Currently the ASRG seems a rather loosely organized group, mainly engaged in surveying what works and what doesn’t in spam prevention and reduction techniques. It was suggested that to develop a one-year agenda on research deliverable, and to follow up the outcomes from the IAB messaging workshop and the IAB Unwanted Traffic workshop.


### 8. IAB retreat planning


Last year IAB held a first retreat in a long time, which led to the work plan of focusing on 3 major areas (IPv6, architecture, and unwanted traffic workshop). The plan was to hold this year’s retreat earlier than last year. The dates were set to May 29-30; the place was deferred to the next meeting.




---


Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


