
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**March 15, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)- [Review of specific actions](#2)- [Review of specific documents](#3)- [Regular Reports](#4)- [IETF IANA Technical Parameter Assignment Situation](#5)- [Items From the Mailing List](#6)- [Workshop Report](#7)- [APRICOT Report](#8)- [IRTF Publication Plan](#9)- [IETF65 Planning](#10)- [AOB](#11)- [IESG Confirmation](#12)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies — invited, incoming IAB  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Kevin Fall — invited, incoming IAB  

Patrik Faltstrom  

Bob Hinden  

Olaf Kolkman — invited, incoming IAB  

David Meyer  

David Oran — invited, incoming IAB  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang


**Absent**  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Jonathan Rosenberg


#### 1.3 Minutes


The minutes from January 18, February 1, and February 15 were approved.


### 2. Review of Specific Actions


IEEE 802.1 Liaison Bernard summarized the status of our search for an 802.1 liaison. The IAB discussed two candidates and chose Dinesh Mohan.


### 3. Review of Specific Documents


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


Loa reported that he has updated the document with all past comments from the IAB and IESG. Loa noted this document should not be confused with the IAB’s document on liaison relationship management processes. The IAB agreed to solicit input on this document from the wider IETF community. Loa agreed to incorporate comments from Elwyn at that time.


#### Untangling Activeware


Leslie reported that Jonathan can not complete this document, so she asked folks to think about volunteering to pick it up. The IAB agreed that the document is still valuable.


### 4. Regular Reports


#### RFC Editor ReportJoyce K. Reynolds


The RFC Editor would like a formal note from the IESG on the new/incoming ADs that will be taking over documents that are already in AUTH 48.


#### ISOC Liaison ReportLynn St. Amour


Nothing to report beyond supporting IASA activities and I believe that is being reported elsewhere.


#### IESG Liaison ReportBert Wijnen


Here is the (in my view) most important news from the IESG:


* minutes/notes from IESG efficiency retreat were posted to the IETF community:  

<http://www.ietf.org/u/ietfchair/Jan06retreat.txt>* working on responses for 2 appeals
	+ <http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/morfin-appeal-against-appeal.txt>+ <http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/Anderson-appeal-03-08-2006.htm>* working on a decision on a PR-action (RFC3683) against JFC Morfin that was IETF Last Called as per:  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg02032.html>


* iesg has had more “old DISCUSS clearing” calls and also exiting ADs are trying to clear their plates. This has been a usefull excercise. So in general quite a set of documents have been processed (and approved) in the last 2 months.
* new IESG members (to start during or right at the end of IETF65)have been included in IESG mailing lists and have been rpesent on IESG telechats. So they are being prepared (grilled ;-)) to be ready to take over.
* IESG (new IESG that is) is planning a retreat asap after IETF65. Discussing a date and location.


### 5. IETF IANA Technical Parameter Assignment Situation


The IAB briefly discussed and approved Leslie’s suggestion that the IAB follow-up on the note recently sent to the Department of Commerce ([) and ask the IAOC to establish a service contract with ICANN, within the existing Memorandum of Understanding. Leslie will take this idea to the IAOC.](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/IANA-2006/IAB-RFI-Input.pdf)


### 6. Items From the Mailing List


#### ITU Multilingual Meeting


The IAB discussed whether someone should attend the upcoming ITU Multilingual meeting (http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/worksem/multilingual/). The IAB agreed that Patrik should attend.


#### IANA CRISP AREG


The IAB agreed that Patrik should send a temporary response to IANA notifying them that the IANA considerations in draft-ietf-crisp-iris-areg-13.txt are not current. Olaf and Patrik will own this new action item.


#### UNICODE Consortium Reply


Patrik reported that he has not yet written a reply to input from the UNICODE consortium on draft-iab-idn-nextsteps, but he will draft a response for the IAB to review before next week. Pete volunteered to provide more input if needed.


#### RIPE BOF


The IAB discussed the possibility of hosting a BOF at RIPE, along the lines of the recent meetings at APRICOT and NANOG. The intended focus of the BOF was not completely clear, and a subset of the IAB agreed to meet Saturday evening (before IETF) to discuss further.


### 7. Workshop Report


Leslie moved this agenda item to our Sunday lunch with the IESG. She asked Lixia and Loa to provide brief overview slides.


### 8. APRICOT Report


Five or six IAB members attended the meeting at APRICOT. The IAB received positive feedback for attending and presenting, but not much feedback on the actual content or interaction with the audience. The multitrack schedule fragmented the audience, so a plenary session would be preferable.


### 9. IRTF Publication Plan


The IAB briefly discussed Aaron’s proposal for IRTF publications. The IAB supports the document. Leslie will work with the IESG Chair to sort out some process/approval details.


### 10. IETF65 Planning


* Planning for handoff
	+ TechComms?* Draft agenda for our meetings — good to go?
* Other meetings we are supporting/should be aware of  

 (GENAREA, TechSpec)
* BoF coverage — are we good to go?


The techcomms ad hoc committee will meet at IETF, tentatively Tuesday afternoon. Lixia volunteered to participate in the committee. Olaf expressed interest but is not sure about the time commitment.


Leslie reported that she circulated draft agendas for the IAB meetings in Dallas. The IAB had no further comment on the agendas.


Leslie suggested that IAB members consider attend the techspec and genarea meetings at Dallas.


The IAB reviewed its planned attendance of BOFs in Dallas. The coverage for l2cp was light so Bernard volunteered.


### 11. AOB


None


### 12. IESG Confirmation


The relevant subset of the IAB discussed the IESG slate received from the NomCom.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](index.html)


