
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**February 15, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Regular Reports](#2)
3. [Review of specific actions](#3)
4. [Review of specific documents](#4)
5. [Workshop planning](#5)
6. [APRICOT plan](#6)
7. [IETF65 Planning](#7)
8. [IANA Port Reassignment Issue](#8)
9. [Upcoming IAB meetings](#9)
10. [IESG Confirmation](#10)
11. [Mehnle Appeal](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Bob Hinden  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Pekka Nikander  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Bernard Aboba  

Patrik Faltstrom  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### 1.3 Minutes


Rich reported that the minutes through January 4 are now on the web site, and draft minutes for the two meetings since have been sent to the list for review.


### 2. Regular Reports


#### IESG Liaison ReportBert Wijnen


* IESG is handling/processing 2 appeals from JFC, plus an PR-action.
* IESG has selected Kurtis Lindqvist for a 2 year term on the IAOC.
* Given the recent appeals and discussions on PR-actions and blocking on other mailinglists, the IESG is preparing a IESG Statement on disruptive posting.
* The IESG has continued to have extra IESG telechats to try and clear (or revive discussion on) as many old documents as possible. The work seems productive. It will help to pass a reasonably clean plate to the new IESG in March.
* IESG had a productive IESG retreat. The focus was on (mainly) IESG efficiency. Of course we could not avoid to also look at overall efficiency of the standardization process. We’ve defined a number of targets for handling various states in the process from “publication requested” up till “document approved”. Together with some tools from Bill Fenner this will help us do a better job.


#### ISOC Liaison ReportLynn St. Amour


I’d like to mention that the ISOC NomComm have announced the slate for ISOC’s 2006 Organization Member and Chapter elections and this may be interesting to you in your own deliberations:



> 
> <http://www.isoc.org/members/vote/2006election/nomcommreport060208.shtml>
> 
> 
> 


And, the next generation “Internet Governance” discussions are continuing with the convening of Consultations on the [Internet Governance Forum](http://www.intgovforum.org) (IGF) February 16 and 17, 2006. ISOC has been heavily involved – on-line and off-line) and we will be participating in these consultations. Note there is also a contribution ON the IETF – [contributed independently](http://www.intgovforum.org/contributions.htm) by Avri Doria.


#### RFC Editor ReportJoyce K. Reynolds


* The total number of RFCs published in 2005 was 327. The total number published in 2004 was 281.
* Ray Pelletier (IAD) visited and met with the RFC Editor team during the week of January 23rd.


#### IRTF ReportAaron Falk


* Drafted process for IRTF document review and publication. Favorably reviewed by IRSG, submitted to IAB for comments. Forwarded to IESG for disclaimer language review, no feedback yet.
* Firmed up IRTF activities at IETF-65:
	+ ASRG IAB review
	+ E2E chair, Karen Sollins, to give RG talk at Thurs plenary
	+ Scalable, small-group multicast bar-bof Sunday night
* Working with Henrik on IRTF wiki/doc tracker tool: trac


### 3. Review of specific actions


#### IEEE 802.1 liaison


The IAB agreed that Bernard has the action to move forward with gathering information for the selection from the pool of candidates generated by his solicitation.


### 4. Review of specific documents


#### Untangling Activeware


Jonathan said that he will send text on IPv6 to the IAB list today.


#### GSE History


Lixia said she needs another week to get a draft out. Rich asked her to update the wiki with this status.


#### Internationalized Domain Names


The IAB discussed this draft. The authors think it is almost done. Leslie will ask the authors to submit their revised draft to the repository. Dave and Pete volunteered to read thoroughly the revised draft. The goal is to determine by the next business meeting whether this is done.


### 5. Workshop planning


The IAB agreed to invite a couple more folks to the workshop. Eric said that the room can hold more than 40 people, but more attendees will not have table space. Leslie noted that she circulated a proposed agenda for the workshop. The IAB agreed that IAB/IESG members will chair sessions. Eric volunteered to identify chairs and potential speakers/participants for the sessions. Dave volunteered to help Eric. Leslie will distribute the proposed agenda to the workshop attendees. Aaron said that ISI will provide light breakfast, snacks, and lunch for both days. The IAB discussed dinner on Thursday but did not reach a conclusion.


### 6. APRICOT plan


Dave said he is not sure how to handle left-over issues from the IAB’s NANOG session. The IAB had an inclusive discussion. It was generally felt that it would be good to show some continuity and progress, but it is not clear how many in the APRICOT audience will have been at the NANOG session or how the open issues really relate to the shim6 context. Leslie, Dave, Kurtis, and Lixia will discuss this further off-line.


### 7. IETF65 Planning


Leslie noted that the IAB’s schedule at IETF week will be typical. The IAB agreed that its Tuesday morning meeting would be a good time for election/selection of positions like IAB Chair, IESG Liaison, IAB Executive Director.


### 8. IANA Port Reassignment Issue


Leslie reported that IANA is dealing with a company that wants to reuse a port, which would require a policy change. She will forward the relevant email to the list for review and discussion.


### 9. Upcoming IAB meetings


The IAB agreed to postpone its tech chat on the security properties of NATs to IETF week, and instead hold Feb 22 for possible confirmation discussions. Leslie noted that March 1 is also being held if needed, and March 8 is our next business meeting.


### 10. IESG Confirmation


The relevant subset of the IAB discussed the status of its confirmation process for the nomcom’s IESG slate.


### 11. Mehnle Appeal


The relevant subset of the IAB discussed the status of the IAB’s response to the Mehnle appeal.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


