
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**August 2, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Review of Specific actions](#2)
3. [Review of Documents](#3)
4. [4. Finalizing date, location, and invitation list for routing and addressing workshop](#4)
5. [Report on the Department of Commerce Meeting](#5)
6. [Job Description for Nomcom](#6)
7. [IETF/MPLS Liaison to ITU-T](#7)
8. [OIF Liaison?](#8)
9. [Confirm Topic for the August Telechat](#9)
10. [AOB](#10)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Kevin Fall  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Eric Rescorla  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang



**ABSENT**  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Olaf Kolkman  

David Meyer


#### Approval of Minutes


The IAB approved the minutes of the June 22 telechat, the July 5 telchat, and the IETF week business meetings.


### 2. Review of Specific Actions


* SG2 liaison response
Leslie sent proposed text to the IAB on July 26, will wait for Olaf’s review before completion.
* update of report on unwanted traffic workshop
The public presentations from the workshop are now available at:  

[http://www.iab.org/about/workshops/unwantedtraffic/index.html.](/about/workshops/unwantedtraffic/index.html)



Loa and Lixia estimated that the report on the workshop will be completed in September.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Review of Specific Documents


#### Untangling Activeware


Lixia and Dave Oran are working on this with a proposed release date around the end of September.


#### GSE history


Lixia is continuing to work on it, but not finished yet.


#### Multilink Subnet draft?


The IPv6 working group had long discussions about supporting multilink subnets in IPv6 and agreed not to do so. Dave Thaler was one of the editors of the original document in the IPv6 working group. The new document records the history of that work and the reasons why the working group in the end chose not to pursue it. The new document will be adopted as an IAB document with recommendations for the community about things to avoid in new protocol work.


#### IDN update


ITU SG-17 has launched a Q16 to talk about IDN next steps. The participants there have noticed our IDN next steps document and SG17 seems to want to own the issues. There is a need to get an RFC number. Kurtis agreed to start drafting a letter to them about our document and will work with Scott Bradner to get the wording right.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Finalizing date, location, and invitation list for routing and addressing workshop


First set of invitations has been sent. Still working specific logistics in Amsterdam for the chosen dates.


### 5. Report on the Department of Commerce Meeting


Lynn provided an update on the Department of Commerce Meeting of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration(NTIA): The Continued Transition of the Technical Coordination and Management of the Internet Domain Name and Addressing System held July 26, 2006 in Washington. It is not yet clear what direction the DoC will take but it seemed clear that they heard our request that the parameter assignment part of the job is not theirs to handle.


### 6. Job Description for Nomcom


Phil will create a spot on our private website to input comments on the text for this year’s nomcom.


### 7. IETF/MPLS Liaison to ITU-T


Loa has proposed that the IETF needs to create a liaison to the ITU to advise on MPLS related issues. Loa has agreed to take on the role. Whether the IAB agrees to this is unclear, will discuss on the list. The IAB agreed to send Loa to the next ITU meeting.


### 8. OIF liaison?


The IAB agreed to draft a proposal for the IAB to consider to advise OIF about the process issues around adapting IETF approved protocols. The ccamp working group is responsible for handling specific issues on the protocols that are in their scope, but the IAB may advise on process.


### 9. Confirm topic for the August techchat


Kurtis will discuss ANYCAST in the August techchat.


Dave Oran agreed to start generating a list of criteria on distinguishing between successful protocols for the IAB to begin discussing with a view to a future IAB techchat.


### 10. AOB


None.




---


### Appendix AAction Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:** February 2006  

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.  

**Status:** IAB needs to publish its timeline in November, so defer until late September / early October.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old status:**Minutes circulated. Next step: Loa and Lixia will send minutes.


#### Mobility Document or other


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  

**Initiated:** May 2006  

**Goal:** Review the status of mobility issues and propose an IAB-sized piece to tackle (if any).




---


### Appendix BDocuments


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old status:** Version -03 published  

**New status:** Olaf talked to PAF and asked Olafur to push draft-ietf-dnsext-rfc2929bis to last call. That document makes RR types allocation easier and choices benefits from that.


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** April 2002  

**Old status:** Comments from Sam & others received.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  
   

Initiated: April 2004  

**Old status:** Lixia assumed responsibility.  

**New status:** Dave Oran and Lixia agreed to renew this effort.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-04.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old status:** comments being addressed.  

**New status:** -05 submitted with comments incorporated.


#### MIP6/SHIM6/HIP relationship


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-thaler-mobility-comparison-00.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Dave Thaler  

**Initiated:**May 2006   

**Status:**Dave published a personal draft on this.


#### Principles of IP Configuration


**Link:** [http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-config-00.txt](http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-config-00.txt)  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Old status:** IAB review solicited.


#### GSE History


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Old status:** Missed the initial deadline but work in progress.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:** <http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** April 2006  

**Old status:** Version -01 published. Feedback requested from 802  

**New status:** Version -02 published. Feedback requested from 802


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**  

<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:**April 2006  

**Status:**Version -01 published.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


