
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**August 30, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [Follow up from Montreal IETF Plenary discussion, where from here.](#2)
3. [TechChat for September](#3)
4. [Update on Workshop logistics](#4)
5. [Polling tool](#5)
6. [Finalizing IAB job description for NomCom](#6)
7. [New-work web page](#7)
8. [ITU/IDN effort](#8)
9. [November plenary](#9)
10. [OIF](#10)
11. [Liaison to ITU for MPLS](#11)
12. [Liaison reports](#12)
13. [Review of Action Items](#13)
14. [Review of Documents](#14)
15. [AOB](#15)
16. [First steps in Jefsey Morfin appeal](#16)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Olaf Kolkman  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC



**ABSENT**  

Kevin Fall  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran


#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of the August 2 telechat.


### 2. Follow up from Montreal IETF Plenary discussion, where from here.


The IAB discussed what it can do practically that will have an outcome relevant to the charter of the IAB specifically with respect to network neutrality. It is clear from the plenary discussions in Montreal that the IETF community expects the IAB to speak to the issue. The IAB agreed to take three actions:


* Determine whether there are terminology additions for RFC 4084 (BCP 104) that could shed light on technical discussions about network neutrality, and suggest making those additions.
* propose documents that the IAB might consider adopting, for example, the technical implications of using QoS as an access Control or security mechanism
* Create an externally visible webpage with references to documents that the IAB believes may be relevant to the network neutrality debate.


### 3. TechChat for September


The IAB discussed the topic of the technical chat in September. Dave Oran agreed to lead a discussion on untangling activeware.


### 4. Update on Workshop logistics


The IAB discussed some of the logistics for its upcoming workshop on routing and addressing.



The current status is that all invitations have been sent, most invitations have been acknowledged,


### 5. Polling tool


The IAB discussed the use of its new polling tool. Phil agreed to improve the process by setting a schedule for a poll, and sending out reminders during the duration of the poll, hopefully automatically.


### 6. Finalizing IAB job description for NomCom


Olaf agreed to take the comments on the job description, modify the text, and issue a last call to the IAB before submitting to the nomcom.


### 7. New-work web page


Loa agreed to continue work on the new work website.


### 8. ITU/IDN effort


Deferred.


### 9. November plenary


The IAB discussed potential topics for the technical plenary in San Diego (IETF 67).


### 10. OIF


Deferred.


### 11. Liaison to ITU for MPLS


Deferred.


### 12. Liaison reports


#### ISOC Liaison Report Lynn St. Amour


1. IETF NomCom:
A few members of the IETF community expressed concern over two issues with this years NomCom selection process.


The list of volunteers should have been published one week before the identification of the randomization data per RFC 3777. This did not happen because, after the nominations period closed, there was some dispute on the eligibility of a number of NomCom volunteers. They were not on the secretariat’s list, but they had attended the requisite number of IETF’s. The NomCom Chair chose to provide the secretariat time to look into their eligibility in order to ensure maximum fairness. This resulted in the list being sent to the secretariat late, and then the message was delayed in the secretariat’s queue.


While the selection was still deterministic, as the list ordering algorithm used (alpha by first name) is deterministic, the optics of this were still not good.


Secondly, a sitting member of the IAB was on the candidate list (and should not have been as they are ineligible to serve under 3777). This was an oversight but the order of the list does matter for the selection process, so although the IAB member was not selected to serve, and the harm done was minimal, we felt that it is important that the IETF follow its own processes as closely as possible.


For these reasons, Andrew and I have decided that to remove any shadow from the proceedings we will re-run the selection algorithm with new seed information, and that process is expected to be completed this week. Andrew will send out the appropriate announcements.
2. IAB Workshop/Hotels and cookies – update sent separately (is there a requirement that all IETF meetings end with this topic 🙂 ).


#### IRTF Liaison Report Aaron Falk


1. OFFPATH BoF followup: A proposed RG charter has been sent to the OFFPATH BoF list for an End-Middles-End Research Group (EMMERG). After a flurry of interest following the IETF meeting, the list has been quiet. Time will tell if it picks up again.
2. Sent out several RG status reports (these come out once per IETF):
TMRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00036.html>  

MOBOPTS: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00037.html>  

ICCRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00038.html>  

ASRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00039.html>  

E2ERG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00040.html>  

P2PRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00041.html>  

HIPRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00042.html>  

SAMRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00043.html>  

NMRG: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/irtf-announce/current/msg00044.html>


#### RFC Editor Report Joyce Reynolds


1. Since the RFC Editor has caught up with its backlog, the bottleneck has moved elsewhere.
There is currently a backlog with the IANA. As of 21 August 2006, there are 25 documents queued in IANA state.
2. We had a query from a a Brazilain reseracher of Internet history about how many RFCs have been published over time by authors from Brazil. It was pointed out that most RFCs originate in the IETF, which is organized by individuals, not companies or countries.
We used a Unix grep command for “.br”, got back the following RFCs that contain Brazilian DNS names:


rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 1.913925 1.795235  

rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 1.154936 1.114775  

rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 2.089536 2.233711  

rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 2.476758 2.249439  

rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 0.454272 0.384484  

rfc1385.txt: exu.inf.puc-rio.br 0.705198 0.690708  

rfc1689.txt: netfind.if.usp.br (University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil)  

rfc1739.txt: netfind.if.usp.br (University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil\) rfc2398.txt: ([http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/~kojima/nextaw/)](http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/~kojima/nextaw/)


#### IESG Liaison Report Dan Romascanu


1. The IESG received on 8/17 an appeal from JFC Morfin against the Draft-Ltru-Matching approval and the consideration of an expedited publication. The response to Part 1 of the appeal was published on 8/22. The IESG is working on a response to Part 2
2. The IESG discussed and prepared a response to the request received under RFC 3933 to run draft-klensin-norm-ref-01.txt as an experiment in loosening the IETF’s requirements for normative references in RFCs. A final version of the response is being discussed with John Klensin and will be submitted for approval at this week’s telechat.
3. In the 8/24 informal meeting the IESG discussed the predicted load of items (documents for approval, new and revised WG charters) until the end of the year. A set of proposals will be run in collaboration with the IESG Secretariat with the scope of reducing the traditional load in the month before the IETF meeting, and making a more efficient use of the time in the IESG telechats.


#### ITU-T NGN Liaison Report Scott Brim


(See [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ngn/2006-08-28.html)](/liaisons/ngn/2006-08-28.html)


#### IEEE Liaison Report Bernard Aboba


(See [http://www.iab.org/liaisons/ieee/2006-07-ieee302-liaison-report.html)](/liaisons/ieee/2006-07-ieee802-liaison-report.html)


#### RSSAC Liaison Report Rob Austein


Jun Murai, RSSAC chair, has chosen Matt Larson as RSSAC vice-chair. This was done after soliciting the opinions of the members of RSSAC (who thought that having a vice-chair was a good idea) and asking for volunteers, from which pool Jun then selected Matt.


### 13. Review of Action Items


Deferred.


### 14. Review of Documents


Deferred.


### 15. AOB


None.


### 16. First steps in Jefsey Morfin appeal


The IAB entered executive session to consider the appeal.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


