
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**February 1, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash and Previous Minutes](#1)
2. [Action List Review](#2)
3. [Document Status Review](#3)
4. [Workshop planning](#4)
5. [APRICOT plan](#5)
6. [IETF Journal](#6)
7. [IETF65 Planning](#7)
8. [Network stories](#8)
9. [Upcoming IAB meetings](#9)
10. [AOB](#10)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**Present**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Rich Draves — IAB Executive Director  

Bob Hinden  

David Meyer  

Eric Rescorla  

Pete Resnick  

Joyce K. Reynolds — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Jonathan Rosenberg  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Bert Wijnen — Liaison from the IESG  

Lixia Zhang



**Absent**  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Patrik Faltstrom  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Pekka Nikander


#### 1.3 Previous Minutes


January 4 minutes were approved.


### 2. Action List Review


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 3. Document Status Review


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 4. Workshop planning


The IAB discussed the dearth of policy types in the attendee list. Eric took the action of generating several names in this area to invite. The IAB noted that we should make sure these folks understand the technical nature of the audience and discussion.


Leslie noted that we will need to send email to the attendees to set expectations regarding agenda and content. Rich took the action of setting up a mailing list on i1b.org.


The IAB discussed the workshop agenda. We have two days of material but realistically folks will want to leave by Friday afternoon, to get home for the weekend. The IAB agreed to start Thursday at 8am and finish at 1pm on Friday, with an optional dinner on Wednesday and optional lunch on Friday after the close.


The IAB agreed that Loa and Lixia will each bring a scribe. If the final attendance allows, we may have room for a third scribe. Rich asked for the scribes’ email addresses.


Leslie asked for further discussion of the workshop agenda and sessions in email.


### 5. APRICOT plan


The IAB briefly discussed planning for APRICOT. Dave said he doesn’t need anything for his session, but Patrik had emailed some requests for Patrik’s session.


### 6. IETF Journal


The IAB discussed the IETF Journal, including its proposed charter and whether the IAB should have representation on the editorial team. Some felt that the IETF Journal was really an ISOC activity and the IETF needed to make its own decisions about how best to do external communication. The IAB did not agree whether the IETF Journal was the best approach or whether external communication was in the IAOC charter. The IAB agreed that some oversight of the IETF Journal is necessary, but there was no agreement on how or who. Eric took the action of reading the draft charter and producing comments in the next week. Pete also took the action of bringing issues to the iab list.


### 7. IETF65 Planning


Leslie proposed the usual IAB meeting schedule for IETF, starting with Sunday lunch with the IESG, meeting Sunday afternoon, and breakfast meetings (some joint with IESG) Monday through Friday. Brian noted that the IESG is considering scrapping one of its breakfasts so it can mingle with the general population. Leslie noted that a conversation with the nomcom chair would be a good topic for a joint IAB/IESG meeting. Brian noted that the Monday breakfast focus would be BOFs, isntead of a less-focused “state of the area” discussion.


The IAB agreed to discuss DHTs at the plenary. Eric has this action.


### 8. Network stories


There wasn’t time for this agenda item, and the IAB agreed to drop it.


### 9. Upcoming IAB meetings


Leslie noted that Febuary 8 is held for a potential IESG slate confirmation discussion, February 15 is our next business meeting, and February 22 is our next tech chat.


The IAB agreed to discuss the security properties of NATs in the tech chat. Eric, Bob, and Jonathan volunteered to lead the discussion.


### 10. AOB


Following the IAB teleconference, a subset of the IAB discussed some issues relating to confirmation of the nomcom’s IESG slate and questions resulting from the Jefsey Morfin appeal response.




---


### Appendix A Action Items


#### IEEE 802.1 liaison


**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Goal:** Appoint a liaison for 802.1, subordinate to our 802 liaison manager.  

**Old Status:** Bernard to write-up requirements for the position.  

**New Status:** Solicitation letter sent out.


#### IAB/IETF Liaison Web Page Update


**Assigned to:** Rich Draves  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Goal:** Rationalize the IAB and IETF liaison web pages, eliminating duplication.  

**New Status:** Done.


#### ISOC BoT Appointment Timeline


**Assigned to:** Rich Draves  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Goal:** Create a timeline for the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC board.  

**Old Status:** Rich sent draft timeline to the list. The IAB agreed that the draft timeline should be revised so that the “old” IAB (prior to Spring IETF) solicits candidates and the “new” IAB makes the selection, in accord with historical practice.  

**New Status:** Done, Leslie sent out timeline/solicitation.


#### Investigate Wiki/BugTracker for IAB Status Updates


**Assigned to:** Rich Draves, Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Goal:** Figure out if the IAB should use wiki or bugtracker software on its private web site to track its action/document status.  

**Old Status:** Investigating BugTracker is on Eric’s list.  

**New Status:** Aaron prototyped actions in the wiki. IAB will give the wiki a try.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, Rich Draves, etc  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old Status:** Eric updated workshop description, Pete pulled together draft invite list, Bernard drafted invitation email, Lixia drafted agenda/session structure, Rich investigated hotel options.  

**New Status:** First round of invitations sent. Hotel and meeting space reserved. Participants assigned to sessions.


#### MFA Liaison


**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson  

**Initiated:** September 2005  

**Goal:** Find a new MFA liaison, since Andy Malis is now President of the MFA Forum.  

**Old Status:** Leslie polled IESG for any final objections to our selection… No objections raised, so we’re working on confirming the selection’s willingness and announcing.  

**New Status:** Done, Matthew Bocci confirmed and announced.


#### Scope of IETF Architecture


**Assigned to:** Dave Meyer, Allison Mankin  

**Initiated:** August 2005  

**Goal:** Create an effort to develop a statement of the scope of the IETF architecture.  

**Old Status:** Leslie has the action item to resummarize. I pinged Allison a while back.  

**New Status:** Deleting this action – no way forward without input/definition from Allison or the IESG.


#### IDN Ad Hoc


**Assigned to:** Patrik Faltstrom, Pete Resnick  

**Initiated:** March 2005  

**Goal:** Create a mailing list and initiate discussion for IAB ad hoc committee on Internationalized Domain Names.  

**Old Status:** Summary discussed with individuals in the IAB-IDN committee, and I hope to be able to write up the result after IETF week.  

**New Status:** Done, the ad hoc committee has concluded. See status of draft-iab-idn-nextsteps.


#### Architectural Issues


**Assigned to:** Pekka Nikander  

**Initiated:** April 2005  

**Goal:** Revise/maintain the list of architectural issues on the IAB web pages.  

**Old Status:** One data page drafted. Slowly filling data to others. For hosting, we could partition the IAB’s private web site into public and private areas and host a public wiki.  

**New Status:** No progress.




---


### Appendix B Documents


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-04.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** April 2002  

**Old Status:** Eric has Brian’s comments. Editing.  

**New Status:** No progress.


#### Internationalized Resource Identifiers


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-char-rep-01.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:** November 2002  

**Last Updated:** February 2006  

**Old Status:** Sadly, no change, and no change likely this month.  

**New Status:** Same


#### DOS Attacks


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dos-03.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** September 2003  

**Old Status:** IETF Call for Input issued Oct 29, concluded Nov 26. Editing. No progress.  

**New Status:** No progress.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt> (expired)  

**Assigned to:** Jonathan Rosenberg  

**Initiated:** April 2004  

**Old Status:** Sets Jan 31 as deadline for new draft; will review in Feb 1 mtg.  

**New Status:** 70% complete draft sent to IAB on Feb 1, will collect comments and complete Feb 8.


#### IAB Messaging Workshop


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-messaging-report-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Pete Resnick  

**Initiated:** April 2004  

**Old Status:** -01 draft sent to RFC Editor.  

**New Status:** In RFC Editor queue.


#### Top Level Domain Issues


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-assumptions-03.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Jonathan Rosenberg  

**Initiated:** May 2004  

**Old Status:** Still in RFC Editor queue.  

**New Status:** In Auth48.


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Patrik Faltstrom  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old Status:** Next up after idn-nextsteps.  

**New Status:**


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-04.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old Status:** -04 will be submitted week of Dec 19.  

**New Status:** -04 has been submitted.


#### IAOC Selection Procedure


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-iesg-iaoc-selection-03.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bert Wijnen  

**Initiated:** December 2004  

**Old Status:** Still in RFC Editor queue.  

**New Status:** Published as RFC 4333.


#### IRTF Review


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-irtf-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, Aaron Falk  

**Initiated:** December 2004  

**Old Status:** IETF Call for Comments issued Nov 30, concluded Dec 14. Aaron and Sally Floyd have a revision that incorporates comments and is ready for publication, subject to final approval.  

**New Status:** In RFC Editor queue.


#### IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-ieee-802-rel-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson, Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** June 2005  

**Old Status:** -05 draft sent to RFC Editor.  

**New Status:** In RFC Editor queue.


#### Mobility Principles (working name)


**Assigned to:** Pekka Nikander  

**Initiated:** August 2005  

**Old Status:** No progress.  

**New Status:** No progress.


#### Guidelines for IETF Liaisons


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-liaison-guidelines-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Old Status:** The IAB decided to release Loa’s revised draft as -01. Bernard read the draft for spelling and grammer, Loa needs to incorporate.  

**New Status:** Version -01 published; requested comments from the IESG and current liaisons.


#### Secure Autoconfiguration


**Link:** <http://www.drizzle.com/~aboba/IAB/draft-iab-config-secure-00.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** October 2005  

**Old Status:** No progress on this one.  

**New Status:** No progress.


#### Internationalized Domain Names


**Link:** <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-idn-nextsteps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Patrik Faltstrom  

**Initiated:** November 2005  

**Old Status:** First draft published.  

**New Status:** -02 published.


#### Gaps and Missing Pieces in IPv6


**Assigned to:** David Meyer  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Old Status:** Initial draft due 1 Feb 2006.  

**New Status:** Have not started, instead working on TE / shim6 document because it is more relevant to upcoming APRICOT meeting.


#### IPv6 Multihoming Issues


**Assigned to:** Bob Hinden  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Old Status:** Initial draft due 3 Jan 2006.  

**New Status:** Not much progress yet, hoping to have time next week.


#### GSE History


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang  

**Initiated:** December 2005  

**Old Status:** Initial draft due 3 Jan 2006.  

**New Status:** Missed the initial deadline but work in progress. New deadline: Feb 17.




---


These minutes were prepared by Rich Draves. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


