
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**December 6, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Draft Tracker Proposal](#2)
3. [Liaison Discussion/Appointments](#3)
4. [Review of Specific Actions](#4)
5. [Review of Specific Documents](#5)
6. [AOB](#6)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director



**ABSENT**  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC


#### Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of November 1 and November 22 business meetings.


### 2. Draft Tracker Proposal


The IAB will use the draft tracker to track its documents. There is a proposal for document states that will be revised before the next business meeting. When the IAB approves those document states they will be included in the proto draft describing IAB and IRTF documents.


### 3. Liaison discussion/appointments


The IAB discussed the proposal to have a liaison with Cablelabs. Dave Oran and Mark Townsley had a teleconference to discuss issues with the document describing the proposed liaison. A new version of that will be ready by end of year and then the IAB will consider the appointment of a liaison.


### 4. Review of Specific Actions


* IAOC questionnaire
Phil updated it and it is ready to be shipped to potential candidates.
* ISOC Appointment timeline
Appointment timeline is done.
* Mobility document
We will remove this from the list at this time until sufficient impetus exists to restart.
* Bad Traffic Report
There are no outstanding comments. Will have an internal pass and then publish.
* RAW Report
Progress is being made.
* IAB doc on DNS wildcards?
There is interest, and the action will be revisited in February.
* Anycast text
No update.
* RFC editor and non-WG submissions
There was some discussion in the context of RFC independent version 4. There will be a page on the IAB website with current state of play on all of these documents.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 5. Review of Documents


* DNS choices
The authors are waiting for a document in dns-ext (2929bis) which will exist as a normative reference here, and then this doc will be published.
* authentication mechanisms
Bernard agreed to have a look at the document to help sort out remaining issues before the end of the year.
* untangling activeware/NAT traversal
The IAB will revisit the progress on this in January.
* link indications
Will be revised by the end of the year.
* GSE history
Given that this is now published as an IETF journal article, the value of publishing an IAB document on the same is unclear.
* RFC series and RFC Editor
Will have a new revision done this month.
* Multilink subnets
There will be a new version within a week and then it is ready for an IAB last call.
* Internet Transparency
A version -01 was produced, need input from the IAB on other material that could be included.
* Principles of IP config
This is not an IAB document, but within a week there should be a new version and the IAB will consider whether it should be an IAB document.
* Multiple encaps
This will be published now.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 6. AOB


None.


### Appendix A – Action Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** February 2006   

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.   

**Old Status:** IAOC appointment timeline agreed to. Next step, send out announcement of the selection process.  

**New Status:** IAOC appointment questionnaire updated and ready to be shipped.


#### ISOC BoT Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:**Handle the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees  

**Status:**Proposed timeline sent to ML with comments requested.  

**New Status:** Timeline ready to be shipped on community in January.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc   

**Initiated:** October 2005   

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old Status:** draft-00 of workshop report published  

**New Status:** comments incorporated. Needs internal review, then ready to be published.


#### Mobility Document or other


**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang   

**Initiated:** May 2006   

**Goal:** Review the status of mobility issues and propose an IAB-sized piece to tackle (if any). 


#### RAW Workshop Report


**Assigned to:** DMM  

**Initiated:** Sep 2006  

**Goal:** To produce a report on the workshop in a timely manner  

**Status:** Initiated  

**New Status:** Release of first version is about to happen.


#### Data Tracker for IAB docs


**Assigned to:** Phil  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** Produce a plan in November; complete execution in December  

**Status:** First draft of document flow completed. Revision needed.


#### Anycast


**Assigned to:** Kurtis  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** produce a draft on protocol considerations for anycast suitability  

**Status:** First draft of proposed text available by year-end.


#### Addressing RFC Editor Question about submissions from individuals beyond working groups


**Assigned to:** Leslie  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** Integrate this with the other documents on RFC editor process  

**Status on 6 Dec 2006:** A page on the IAB website will be created with current progress on all of these documents




---


### Appendix B – Document Status


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt>   

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** Olaf and PAF will make a final review.  

**New status:** waiting on publication of RFC 2929bis to include as a normative reference


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla   

**Initiated:** April 2002   

**Old Status:** Comments from Sam & others received.  

**New Status:** Bernard will provide input by year-end.


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>(expired)   

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang and Dave Oran  

**Initiated:** April 2004   

**Old status:** Dave Oran and Lixia agreed to renew this effort.  

**New Status:** Revisit this in the middle of January.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** -05 submitted with comments incorporated.  

**New status:** will have a new revision by year end 2006.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old Status:** Version -02 published. Feedback received from IEEE 802.1 & 802.16 (all positive so far).  

**New Status:** Shipped for publication.


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old status:** Last call will be sent.  

**New status:** A new version is imminent.


#### Multilink Subnets


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-multilink-subnet-issues-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Dave Thaler  

**Initiated:**August 2006  

**Old Status:**Version -01 published with comments incorporated   

**New Status:** A revision is about to be published, and then it is ready for IAB last call. 


#### Reflections on Internet Transparency


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-net-transparent-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Status on 3 Dec 06:** -01 update submitted.


#### Report on Unwanted Traffic Workshop


**Link:**[Link: http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/](http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/)  

**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson   

**Initiated:** March 2006   

**Status on 28 Nov 06:** -00 document published 



These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


