
Minutes
IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------


**IETF 67**  

**November 5-10, 2006**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Evaluating Protocol Success](#2)
3. [ICANN Nomcom Appointment](#3)
4. [IETF Nomcom](#4)
5. [RFC Editor Process Discussion](#5)
6. [Follow-up on the Routing and Addressing Workshop](#6)
7. [Planning for the Thursday Night Plenary](#7)
8. [ISOC Update](#8)
9. [Schedule](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair


### 2. Evaluating Protocol Success


The IAB discussed what makes protocols successful. Dave Thaler and Bernard Aboba produced slide sets on some general criteria and some specific case studies. The IAB agreed to continue to discuss this further in the November Tech Chat.


### 3. ICANN Nomcom Appointment


The IAB discussed potential candidates for a position on the ICANN Nominating Committee. The prospective candidates were approached during the week, and the IAB agreed to select Lucy Lynch to serve on the ICANN Nominating Committee.


### 4. IETF Nomcom


The IAB discussed providing input to the IETF Nominating Committee on the IAB’s expectations for how the nomcom gathers sufficiently broad input from the community during the selection process.


### 5. RFC Editor Process Discussion


The IAB and the RFC Editor discussed how to proceed from where we are with input to the RFC Editor on what the IAB believes is important in the process. Currently we have the independent document which is not yet to the point where it can be approved and we need to review Jari’s document on individual submissions to provide feedback on that. It may be necessary to create a page on the IAB website for a current status on the definition of the RFC series at this point in time. (http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-rfc-editor/draft-iab-rfc-editor-01.txt)


### 6. Follow-up on the Routing and Addressing Workshop


The IAB discussed how to get organized and take action as a result of the enthusiasm among both the IAB and IESG resulting from the discussions in the routing and addressing workshop. Any action requires coordination with the IESG. There is a need to have a wider group of stakeholders who provide input to the process and are informed about what is going on. This may require a follow-up workshop.


### 7. Planning for the thursday night plenary


The IAB discussed the plan for the technical plenary on Thursday night, particularly the readout from the two most recent IAB workshops (on unwanted traffic and on routing and addressing). 


### 8. ISOC Update


Lynn St. Amour


Lynn presented a summary of the current financial condition of the ISOC and its plans for ongoing activities. The ISOC currently has unencumbered cash reserves to cover 6 months of operations and guarantees for two IETFs. This is one year ahead of the projected schedule of reaching that position in 2008. The bulk of the revenues come from the operation of the .org TLD. The ISOC will grow from 11 full time equivalents or volunteers at the end of 2005 to 20 at the end of 2006. It is anticipated that there will be significant growth in the .org in the coming years.


### 9. Schedule


The IAB agreed to have an additional business meeting in November and to switch the dates of the techchat and that business meeting.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


