
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**6 June 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [NomCom Process for 2007](#2)
3. [BOF Signup](#3)
4. [Action Status Update](#4)
5. [Document Status Update](#5)


#### 1.1 Agenda


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Dave Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Danny McPherson  

Elwyn Davies  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*


### 2. NomCom Process for 2007


The NomCom process for 2007 was discussed, following correspondence from the 2007 NomCom chair. There was extensive discussion on the role of the IAB NomCom liaison in relation to RFC 3777, particularly with reference to the question how personal opinions of liaisons might be interpreted or presented. Olaf to draft a response to the NomCom chair.


### 3. BOF Signup


Joe to provide a sign-up page on the IAB wiki to help coordinate coverage of BOFs by IAB members.


### 4. Action Status Update


#### 4.1. Anycast


No progress.


#### 4.2. Infrastructure ENUM


Still waiting on liaison.


#### 4.3. ICANN NomCom


Deferred.


#### 4.4. CableLabs Liaison


Dave Oran has not yet found time to talk to the last candidate.


#### 4.5. Next Steps in Persuing RG on Unwanted Traffic


A conference call to be scheduled between Loa, Dave Thaler and Danny to discuss next steps.


### 5. Document Status Update


#### 5.1. Design Choices when Expanding DNS


Olaf to follow up with Rob Austein.


#### 5.2. Survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Not expected to be done before Chicago.


#### 5.3. Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


In AUTH48.


#### 5.4. The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


Closure achieved.


#### 5.5. Multilink Subnets


In AUTH48.


#### 5.6. Reflections on Internet Transparency


No update available, since Elwyn not present.


#### 5.7. Report on Unwanted Traffic Workshop


No progress.


#### 5.8. IAB Publication


Closure achieved.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


