
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**2 May 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [IAB Retreat Planning](#2)
3. [Action Item Status Update](#3)
4. [Document Status Update](#4)
5. [Selection of Cablelabs Liaison](#5)
6. [Followup to Emergency Services SDO Coordination Meeting, Apr 11-12?](#6)
7. [IESG Statement about Bringing Routing and Addressing Solutions to the IETF](#7)
8. [IANA Considerations Considerations](#8)
9. [AOB](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Lynn St Amour *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Leslie Daigle  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Liaison)*  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Danny McPherson


#### 1.3 Welcome to new Executive Director, Joe Abley


The IAB extended its thanks and appreciation to Phil Roberts for carrying out the task of IAB Executive Director with great zeal.


#### 1.4 Approval of Minutes


The minutes of the April 18 conference call were approved.


### 2. IAB Retreat Planning


The agenda for the IAB retreat on 2007-05-31/2007-06-01 was discussed at some length. Several new topics were proposed. The goal is to have the list of topics agreed within a week or two of the retreat; the timing of individual sessions can always be adjusted closer to the time.


### 3. Action Status Update


* Anycast
No update.
* Infrastructure ENUM
Draft text for the IAB Liason Statement is with the Area Directors. The IAB is waiting to hear from the ADs. Eric Rescorla to follow up with them.


### 4. Document Status Update


* Design Choices when expanding DNS
Olaf reported that the document is being edited to accommodate some language changes and feedback from one of the members of the directorate.
* Survey of Authentication Mechanisms
No update.


### 5. Selection of Cablelabs Liaison


Dave Oran reported no progress since the last report. The liason document was approved by the IESG, and is in the RFC Editor’s queue. Dave expected to have candidate to present to the IAB by the following business meeting.


### 6. Followup to Emergency Services SDO Coordination Meeting, Apr 11-12?


No update. Olaf to follow up.


### 7. IESG Statement about Bringing Routing and Addressing Solutions to the IETF


There was considerable discussion. Mark Townsley described the IESG’s goals in making the statement. To those on the IAB, the document’s purpose appeared to be unclear and there was concern that the document would lead to additional confusion. Mark will take that feedback to the IESG.


### 8. IANA Considerations Considerations


Olaf provided some background relating to the IANA Considerations text in draft-weiler-dnssec-dlv-02. The author of that document is considering whether or not to retain the text; if he does, the implications for the IANA should be considered by the IAB in relation to the MoU between the IETF and ICANN.


Until the author’s decision is known, there is no action required of the IAB.


### 9. AOB


Barry Leiba requested feedback on his message regarding a possible Applications Area workshop.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


