
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**7 November 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [T-MPLS Design Team](#2)
3. [Status of Emergency Services within IAB](#3)
4. [OMA Liaison Status Update](#4)
5. [IETF Agenda](#5)
6. [Action Item Status](#6)
7. [Document Status](#7)
8. [AOB](#8)
9. [Executive Director Review](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Aaron Falk  *(IRTF Chair)*   

Kevin Fall  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

Eric Rescorla  

Lynn St Amour  *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

David Oran  

Sandy Ginoza  *(RFC Editor Liaison)*


#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


Fresh copies of the minutes of business meetings on 2007-10-03 and 2007-10-17 to be circulated, with suggested changes incorporated. Comments on 2007-10-03 to be received by COB Monday, otherwise presumed approved. Minutes of 2007-10-17’s meeting to be approved at the following meeting.


### 2. T-MPLS Design Team


Loa reported that the T-MPLS Design Team had held its first meeting, and that there is a good level of enthusiasm within the team about the work which is to be done.


It was observed by several of those present that the appropriate structure for the design team to be incorporated within was probably that of an IAB ad-hoc committee. There were no objections to this.


Joe to document the existence and composition of the committee in the appropriate place on the IAB web page.


### 3. Status of Emergency Services within IAB


There was considerable discussion about whether the IAB had a continuing role to play in work relating to emergency services.


It was noted that there is active work in this area being carried out by the ecrit working group. It was also noted that the general subject area of emergency services is very broad, and encompasses more than just telephony. There was some agreement that a taxonomy of emergency services would be useful to have, but no consensus that this was a suitable work item for the IAB.


It was concluded that there was no clearly identified architectural aspects of emergency services that required attention from the IAB at that time.


### 4. OMA Liaison Status Update


Barry gave an update on the IETF liaison to the OMA. In previous discussions Dean Willis had expressed a question about his ability to continue as OMA Liaison Relationship Manager. However, the role is not currently taking up a lot of Dean Willis’ time, and the IESG have indicated that they are happy with the interaction between the IETF and the OMA, and that there are no current areas of concern.


It was decided to convene a face-to-face meeting between Dean Willis, as the current liaison, Barry and the four affected Area Directors in Vancouver in order to identify a path forward.


### 5. IETF Agenda


The IAB’s meeting schedule for IETF 70 was discussed, as well as a provisional programme for the technical plenary.


It was decided to schedule two technical presentations at the technical plenary — “What Makes for a Successful Protocol?” by Dave Thaler, and “Energy Engineering for Protocols and Networks” by Bruce Nordman and Elwyn Davies. A third proposal for a presentation relating to Emergency Services was not accepted.


Joe will create a BOF sign-up area on the wiki in order to ensure that BOFs get appropriate coverage by the IAB.


### 6. Action Item Status


#### 6.1. Design Team for preparing the ground for T-MPLS co-operation (Loa)


Design team formed as IAB ad-hoc committee. Action closed.


#### 6.2. IAB NAT-PT (Elwyn Davies)


To be discussed in Vancouver.


#### 6.3. Followup to Emergency Services SDO Co-ordination Meeting April 11-12


As discussed earlier in the meeting, no action required by IAB. Action closed.


#### 6.4. OMA Liaison (Barry)


As discussed earlier in the meeting, face-to-face meetings to take place in Vancouver.


#### 6.5. ITU/NGN Liaison (EKR)


Appointment made. Action closed.


#### 6.6. Unwanted Traffic RG (Loa)


No progress to report.


#### 6.7. Anycast (Kurtis)


No progress to report.


#### 6.8. Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM Doc (Olaf)


Olaf reported that this is still with the ADs.


#### 6.9. Consider Policy on ICANN NomCom


Assigned to Olaf.


#### 6.10. ISO Approved Reference Authority


Olaf reported that the mail had been sent. Action closed.


### 7. Document Status


#### 7.1. Design Choices when Expanding DNS (Olaf)


Olaf to follow up with Rob Austein.


#### 7.2. DNS Synthesis Concerns (Olaf)


No progress to report.


#### 7.3. A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms (EKR)


No progress to report. It is hoped that progress will be made before Vancouver.


#### 7.4. IPv6 Migration: The Way Forward – Strategy and Tools (Elwyn)


No progress to report.


#### 7.5. Principles of Internet Host Configuration (Dave Thaler)


Dave reported that draft-iab-ip-config-00 needs some changes to its Security Considerations section.


#### 7.6. Experiment in Study Group Formation within the IETF (Russ)


Action closed.


### 8. AOB.


There was no other business.


### 9. Executive Director Review


The IAB went into executive session to discuss the role of Executive Director.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley and Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](index.html)


