
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**February 21, 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [IETF 68 Planning](#2)
3. [ENUM Discussion](#3)
4. [Liaison Discussions/Appointments](#4)
5. [ITU Identity Management Report](#5)
6. [Document Status Update](#6)
7. [Regular Reports](#7)
8. [AOB](#8)
9. [Executive Session](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair



**ABSENT**  

Kevin Fall  

David Meyer  

Lixia Zhang


### 2. IETF 68 Planning


The IAB agreed to have a review of the HIP RG during the Thursday breakfast during Prague.


Phil reminded the IAB to sign up to cover BOFs and agreed to update the agenda based on the more stable version now available.


The IAB agreed to have a discussion of internationalization during the Thursday plenary at Prague with details about speakers and arrangements to be worked out on the mailing list.


### 3. ENUM Discussion


The IAB looked at a proposal from the ENUM working group chairs and provided some input to the IESG about the documents coming out of that working group. The IESG will check back with the IAB again before approving the documents.


### 4. Liaison Discussion/Appointments


* Cablelabs
Phil and Loa agreed to look through the proposed internet draft (draft-mule-ietf-cablelabs-collaboration-03.txt). Phil agreed to provide more input of specifics to include in document tracking based on what is done with 3gpp but that doesn’t directly impact the document.


### 5. ITU Identity Management Report


Kurtis summarized his impressions of the ITU-T identity management workshop. The IAB agreed that it would be good to have someone on the IAB follow the progress of this work by subscribing to the mailing lists. The IAB agreed to revisit who might be able to do this in Prague, after the new IAB members are known.


### 6. Document Status Update


* RAWs document
The IAB agreed it would like to get this completed before IETF-68.
* Unwanted traffic document
There needs a final confirmation from the workshop list that the latest version is to their satisfaction, then last call will be sent.
* Transparency document (PRR, Lixia)
Bernard incorporated comments from Phil and Lixia and it is ready for community feedback.
* Link indications
Leslie agreed to submit this for publication on 3/1 unless more input is received before then.


### 7. Regular reports


#### IESG Liaison ReportDan Romascanu


1. As described in the RFC-to-be draft-ietf-proto-wgchair-doc-shepherding, the IESG is maintaining an updated template for the Document Shepherd Write-Up available at  

[http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/Doc-Writeup.html.](http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/Doc-Writeup.html)  

Changes are expected over time. This version is dated February 1, 2007. There is also a version tuned for individual submissions via AD at  

<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/Indiv-Doc-Writeup.html>  

last updated on February 5, 2007.
2. The IESG approved the P2PSIP Working Group in the 2/8 telechat.
3. The following new Working Groups are on the agenda of the 2/22 IESG telechat:
	* Media Server Control (MEDIACTRL)  
	
	<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/EVALUATIONS/mediactrl-charter.txt>
	* Pre-Congestion Notification (PCN)  
	
	<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/EVALUATIONS/pcn-charter.txt>
4. Rechartering of the following Working Groups is part of the agenda of the discussed in the 2/22 telechat
	* Network Mobility (nemo)  
	
	<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/EVALUATIONS/nemo-charter.txt>
	* SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (simple)  
	
	<http://www.ietf.org/IESG/EVALUATIONS/simple-charter.txt>


#### RFC Editor ReportSandy Ginoza


* We have received some reports of incorrectly expanded abbreviations in RFCs. This causes concern because the expansions are usually either verified by authors (we ask them) or they have been defined in an earlier RFC. This implies that authors are expanding them incorrectly, or they are not reviewing the changes we have made.
* We intend to post a list of abbreviations and expansions that we have been using as an internal reference guide. Hopefully, this will raise the awareness of already existing abbreviations present in RFCs and prevent overloading one abbreviation with multiple expansions.
* For example:
SA – security association  

 – Source-Active  

 – source address
* The RFC Editor will be hosting a tutorial session and office hours in Prague.
Tutorial Session: Sun 3:00 – 4:45  

Office Hours: Mon – Wed 9:30 – 4:00


#### IRTF ReportAaron Falk


* New RRG chairs in place: Tony Li, Lixia Zhang. The RRG is reviewing an updated charter that will focus the group on developing new routing architectures to address problems identified in the RAWS workshop.
* Aiko Pras will give a short recap of a recent NMRG workshop “Future Direction of Network and Service Management Research” at the IAB plenary in Prague.
* The HIP RG will review progress and plans with the IAB in Prague.
* Lars Eggert, TSV AD, attended a recent ICCRG meeting and discussed how that RG might support the IETF in reviewing experimental congestion control proposals.
* draft-irtf-dtnrg-arch-08 (“Delay-Tolerant Networking Architecture”) has been submitted to the RFC Editor for publication as an IRTF RFC.
* A revision to draft-irtf-rfcs is underway.


#### ISOC ReportLynn St. Amour


* ISOC and the ISOC Board of Trustees are currently working to outline a project which would serve to identify areas where ISOC might launch some multi-year strategic initiatives in support of critical developmental areas for the Internet. This initiative is expected to operate at the intersection of technology and policy.
More information will be forthcoming once the Board has agreed the project outline and we, of course, expect to work very closely with technology and policy experts.
* The next ISOC Board meeting will be held in Prague the weekend immediately following the IETF (all day on Saturday the 24th March and Sunday AM the 25th March 2007). Our Board meetings are open and all are welcome to attend.


### 8. AOB


No other business


### 9. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to complete the confirmation of the IESG slate from the nomcom. Over the past several weeks the IAB held several executive session meetings to discuss the nominations. Leslie Daigle recused herself entirely from these discussions. Dave Meyer recused himself from discussions relating to the routing AD confirmation.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


