
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**18 April 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [IAB Retreat Planning](#2)
3. [Techchat planning](#3)
4. [Cablelabs Liaison](#4)
5. [ION on liaison pragmatics](#5)
6. [Follow-up needed on emergency services after the coordination meeting in D.C.?](#6)
7. [Does the IAB want to do anything different with respect to the ICANN nomcom?](#7)
8. [Regular reports](#8)
9. [AOB](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Liaison)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Phil Roberts *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Lynn St Amour *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Loa Andersson  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*


#### 1.4 Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of Apr 4 conf call


### 2. IAB Retreat Planning


The IAB discussed the logistics of the upcoming IAB retreat at the end of May, and began planning the agenda for the meeting.


### 3. Telechat planning


Dave Thaler reconfirmed that he will be leading the April techchat with a continuation of the protocol success topic.


Dave Thaler also agreed to present the material on routing and addressing that he presented at the int area meeting during the May techchat.


### 4. Cablelabs liaison


The IAB reviewed some possible candidates for the IETF liaison to Cablelabs. Some possible candidates have not been contacted yet, so the IAB agreed to conclude this discussion during the next business meeting.


### 5. ION on liaison pragmatics


Magnus Westerlund and Loa Andersson have been discussing producing an ION describing the pragmatics of being a liaison on behalf of the IETF. Loa is tracking this issue and will report back to the IAB as it goes forward.


### 6. Follow-up needed on emergency services after the coordination meeting in D.C.?


The IAB is waiting for complete reports from this meeting before determining whether the IAB needs to take any action.


### 7. Does the IAB want to do anything different with respect to the ICANN nomcom?


The IAB discussed whether it should do anything different with respect to the way it interacts with the ICANN nocmom. It is not clear at this time whether anything should be done. The IAB agreed to revisit this when the nomcom appointment comes up again.


### 8. Regular reports


#### 8.1. IESG Report


Selected items of interest that have been discussed on the IESG list since Prague:


1. The IESG will be holding a two-day retreat in Half-Moon Bay, CA on May 1 and May 2.
2. The IESG has been tossing around the idea of “Mug Shots” of us published somewhere (with no definitive action item taken just yet). This came up in response to the fact that many people may know us by email, but not by face, and have a hard time tracking us down during a meeting or knowing who it is that is blabbing on at the microphone. Perhaps the IAB should consider this as well.
3. There has been one formal IESG Telechat and one “informal discuss-clearing call” since the Prague meeting.


Selected items from the April 5 Formal Telechat:


1. The IESG approved draft-mule-ietf-cablelabs-collaboration-03.txt
2. The IESG approved the “AD Sponsoring Guidelines” ION.
3. The IESG approved a revised charter from Jari Arkko for the NEMO working group.
4. Lars Eggert closed the PMTU-D WG, and is “close” to closing RDDP.
5. Jon Peterson plans to take steps to dismantle IEPREP working group. Does not think the HICCUP BOF will be back, at least not soon.
6. Sam Hartman thinks IFARE will try for another BoF in Chicago
7. Lars Eggert initiated a short discussion on “Developing metrics in the IETF” – This could have cross-area impact, could eventually be a BoF.
8. Michelle (IANA) got a query about a registry that duplicates IEEE assignments, but there are discrepancies. What to do? Update? Point to IEEE site? Got some feedback, want to know about involving liaison. Jari assigned action to find a person to work with IANA to help resolve this.


Selected item from the April 12 “Informal Discuss-Clearing Call”:


1. IESG members and IAB ex-officio present discussed the organization of work between the IETF, IRTF and IAB. It was decided on this call that the IESG would make a statement offering guidelines for submitting output from the IRTF (in general, but specifically motivated by the RRG work) into the IETF process. This text is still being developed and should be available shortly.


#### 8.2. IRTF Report


RRG chairs have been working with INT ADs on coordinating RRG activities and meetings. All-day RRG meeting is being planned for Friday of IETF week.


#### 8.3. RFC Editor Report


As we continue the trial use of the XML source file during AUTH48 (27 documents thus far), we have received the following suggestions from the community (in addition to positive feedback):


1. Make the source file valid. Use Bill’s xml2rfc validator (http://rtg.ietf.org/~fenner/ietf/xml2rfc-valid/).
2. Use the cref element instead of <!–comments–> to insert RFC Editor queries into the source file. Make them inline so that they show up in the diff file.


Because our concern is creating the final text output (and because the submitted XML source files vary widely in quality & validity), we have reservations about the time/effort required to implement these suggestions at this time.


From our end, we plan to request that authors consolidate their changes before submitting them to the RFC Editor in cases where there are multiple authors (for those documents that undergo AUTH48 in XML). This means that the authors will submit one updated source file that contains their changes.


We are still testing the process of using the XML source file during AUTH48, so any suggestions are appreciated.


#### 8.4. ISOC Report


Nothing to report at the IAB-ISOC boundary, but Lynn is looking for input on what information the IAB might be interested in with respect to ISOC’s activities overall.


### 9. AOB


Olaf reminded the IAB that he would like to have a discussion on IANA considerations at the next business meeting.


The IAB discussed whether or not to add photos of the IAB members to the IAB website. No conclusion was reached.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


