
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**April 4, 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [IETF 68](#2)
3. [Action Item Status Update](#3)
4. [Document Status Update](#4)
5. [New Executive Director Discussion](#5)
6. [Emergency Services SDO Coordination Meeting Apr 11-12](#6)
7. [Do we want to do anything different on the ICANN nomination committee?](#7)
8. [IAB Retreat Logistics and Possible Agenda Items](#8)
9. [AOB](#9)
10. [Executive Session](#10)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman — IAB Chair  

Barry Leiba  

Danny McPherson  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC  

Mark Townsley — Liaison from the IESG  

Russ Housley — IETF chair


**ABSENT**  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor


#### Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of the March 7 and IETF business meetings.


### 2. Action Status Update


* IAB Doc on DNS WildcardsLixia will review this weekend. Olaf will incorporate feedback received so far and issue a -00 draft.
* AnycastNo update.
* Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM DocThe IAB is responsible for the liaison about Infrastructure ENUM and is expecting a draft to be supplied by the ENUM working group.
* Consider Policy on ICANN nominationsDiscussed under item 7 below.
* Cablelabs LiaisonThe draft will be reviewed by the IESG tomorrow and if approved we will consider candidates for the IETF Liaison role.
* The IRTF and the IABThis discussion is tentatively scheduled for the retreat.


### 3. Document Status Update


* Design Choices when expanding DNSOlaf talked to PAF and Rob Austein. There is some new proposed text but it’s not clear whether it fits into the document. Rob will make a language review in April.
* authentication mechanismsEKR met with Bernard and came to a conclusion on all the points. EKR just needs to write it up.
* untangling activewareThe IAB agreed to remove this document from its list of documents under consideration.
* internet transparencyThis document has completed last call. No further comments were received. It will be submitted for publication.
* unwanted trafficThis document is ready for publication.
* raws reportToday is the last day of its last call. Lixia has incorporated comments received thus far. Goal is to submit for publication this week.


### 4. ITU Questionnaire on Resolution 102


The IAB agreed to pull together some interested individuals to determine how best to support ISOC with respect to this resolution and whether or not there is any specific IAB action required. Danny McPherson, Kurtis Lindqvist, Leslie Daigle, PAF, and Lynn St. Amour agreed to work together on this.


### 5. New Executive Director Discussion


The IAB discussed some possibilities about a new executive director. No conclusion was reached.


### 6. Emergency Services SDO Coordination Meeting Apr 11-12


The IAB decided to determine whether Andy Newton might be attending this meeting and whether he could provide a report back to the IAB on the proceedings. He will not be asked in any way to represent the IETF or the IAB.


### 7. Do we want to do anything different on the ICANN nomcom?


The IAB agreed to take this topic under further consideration and discuss it in detail at the next business meeting.


### 8. IAB retreat logistics and possible agenda items


The IAB began discussing preparations for the IAB retreat on May 31 and June 1.


### 9. AOB


The IAB spent some time talking about the purpose and logistics of a proposed get together with the ITU-T study group chairs in Chicago before IETF. No conclusion was reached.


The IAB spent some time determining how to proceed with ROAP discussions as the IAB in addition to other efforts that are ongoing. The IAB agreed to ask some subset of the team to determine whether there is a proposal for something concrete. Dave Thaler, Kevin Fall, Leslie Daigle, Loa Andersson, Elwyn Davies, Barry Leiba, Lixia Zhang, Danny McPherson, and Mark Townsley agreed to participate.


### 10. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss its nomination for the ISOC BoT position.


### Appendix A – Action Items


#### ISOC BoT Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:**Handle the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees  

**Old Status:** Leslie sent out the call for nominations.  

**New Status:** IAB is deliberating.


#### IAB Doc on DNS Wildcards


**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkmann  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:**Convert the text that has been used in communications about wildcards in the DNS into an IAB document  

**New Status:** Olaf has received some comments, will generate -00.


#### Anycast


**Assigned to:** Kurtis  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** produce a draft on protocol considerations for anycast suitability  

**Status:** Text expected RSN.


#### Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM


**Assigned to:**  

**Initiated:** March 2007  

**Goal:**Make sure the IAB provides input on the doc before it is published.  

**New Status:**Working group is preparing a liaison statement. Chair and AD have been told that the liaison is the end responsibility of the IAB.


#### Consider Policy on ICANN Nominations Committee


**Assigned to:**  

**Initiated:**February 2007  

**Goal:**Determine whether what we are doing now is sufficient or needs some refinement.  

**Status:**Leslie sent an email on Feb 26 describing what some possible options are.


#### CableLabs Liaison Appointment


**Assigned to:** Dave Oran  

**Initiated:** December 2006  

**Goal:**Appoint someone to the liaison role with CableLabs  

**Status:**The draft describing the relationship has been reviewed by a few folks. When the document is approved the IAB will return to the task of appointing the liaison.


#### The IRTF and the IAB


**Assigned to:**Aaron Falk  

**Initiated:** March 2007  

**Goal:**Come to some shared understanding of the current status of the IRTF and the ways the IRTF and IAB relate now and how it might evolve going forward.  

**Status:** Tentatively scheduled for 2007 retreat.




---


### Appendix B – Document Status


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old status:** waiting on publication of RFC 2929bis to include as a normative reference  

**New status:** Olaf talked to PAF, received proposed text from Peter Koch, and confirmed Rob Austein will do another review pass during April.


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla  

**Initiated:** April 2002  

**Old Status:** Bernard provided a list of 20 open issues. EKR will review and post  

**New Status:** Bernard and EKR met during IETF 68 and came up with proposed resolutions.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-10.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** June 2004  

**Old Status:** In the RFC Editor Queue.


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-encaps-08.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** April 2006  

**Old Status:** Editing underway by the RFC Editor.


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-04.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle  

**Initiated:** April 2006  

**Old Status:** Changes incorporated and ready for publication.  

**New Status:** In RFC Editor Queue.


#### Multilink Subnets


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-multilink-subnet-issues-03.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Dave Thaler  

**Initiated:**August 2006  

**Old Status:** In the RFC Editor Queue.


#### Reflections on Internet Transparency


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-net-transparent-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Old Status:** Call for input to IETF. Comments being incorporated.  

**New Status:** Ready for publication.


#### Report on Unwanted Traffic Workshop


**Link:**[Link: http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/draft-iab-iwout-report-03.txt](http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/draft-iab-iwout-report-03.txt)  

**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson  

**Initiated:** March 2006  

**Old Status:** -03 document published. IETF call for comments underway.  

**New Status:** Ready for publication.


#### IAB publication


**Link:**<http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-publication/draft-iab-publication-00.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Diagle  

**Initiated:** December 2006  

**Old Status:** IAB agreed to submit for publication.  

**New Status:** In RFC Editor Queue.


#### RAW report


**Link:**<http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-raws-report/draft-iab-raws-report-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Dave Meyer  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Old status:** Under IETF last call


#### RFC Independent


**Link:**<http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-rfc-independent/draft-iab-rfc-independent-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Dave Thaler  

**Initiated:** January 2007  

**Old status:** In RFC Editor Queue




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](index.html)


