
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**11 July 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [RIPE NCC’s Message about Signing E164.ARPA](#2)
3. [ITU MPLS Liaison](#3)
4. [T-MPLS](#4)
5. [Message to ITU-T about BCP 129/RFC 4929](#5)
6. [IETF 69 Agenda](#6)
7. [Enterprise Workshop](#7)
8. [Action Status](#8)
9. [Document Status](#9)


#### 1.1 Agenda


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*



**APOLOGIES**  

Leslie Daigle  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Lixia Zhang


#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


Minutes of IAB telecconference on 2007-05-16 were approved.


### 2. RIPE NCC’s Message about Signing E164.ARPA


It was noted that correspondence had been received from the RIPE NCC regarding the RIPE NCC’s plans to sign the E164.ARPA zone. A was agreed that the IAB would send a courtesy note to the ITU to keep them informed about this recent development. Olaf to draft some text for discussion. RIPE NCC correspondence to be published on the IAB web page.


### 3. ITU MPLS Liaison


The need for an ongoing MPLS liaison to the ITU was discussed. It was agreed that this liaison role continues to be useful and should be filled.


Consensus was achieved on the choice of MPLS liaison to the ITU. Loa to contact the candidate and confirm that he is still happy to serve.


### 4. T-MPLS


Loa presented concerns about potential interoperability problems between MPLS as standardised in the IETF, and T-MPLS which is being defined in the ITU, and which appears to use identical code points (e.g. ether-type) to the IETF protocol.


It was agreed that the technical aspects of the problem would be discussed further at IETF 69 in Chicago.


### 5. Message to ITU-T about BCP 129/RFC 4929


Olaf reported that the Routing Area Directors had requested that the IAB and IESG draw the ITU’s attention to this document, which describes the change process for MPLS and GMPLS protocols and procedures. The usual protocol would be for such a message to be delivered by the ITU-T liaison; however, given the importance of the document it was agreed that having the IAB/IESG send the message would be useful. Olaf to draft text and circulate for comment.


### 6. IETF 69 Agenda


It was agreed that Loa would present an overview of MPLS during the Sunday afternoon IAB meeting.


### 7. Enterprise Workshop


The question of whether to pursue an IAB workshop focussed on the needs and concerns of enterprises was discussed. It was agreed that for such an exercise to be of value, a detailed plan for its execution was required, and such a plan would require careful co-ordination. Potential volunteers for this co-ordination role to be discussed on the mailing list.


### 8. Action Status Update


#### 8.1. Anycast


Joe and Kurtis have had some initial discussion.


#### 8.2. Infrastructure ENUM


Still with the ADs.


#### 8.3. CableLabs Liaison


Dave Oran has contacted all the candidates, and is preparing a summary which will be sent out by e-mail for comment.


### 9. Document Status Update


#### 9.1. draft-iab-dns-synthesis-concerns


No progress.


#### 9.2. draft-iab-iwout-reports


In the RFC Editor queue.


#### 9.3. draft-iab-raws-report


In the RFC Editor queue.


#### 9.4. draft-iab-rfc-editor


Cleared AUTH48.


#### 9.5. draft-iab-rfc-independent


Cleared AUTH48.


#### 9.6. draft-iab-dns-choices


Olaf to follow up with Rob Austein.


#### 9.7. draft-iab-publication


In the RFC Editor queue.


#### 9.8. draft-iab-net-transparent


Approved, ready for publication.


#### 9.9. draft-ietf-proto-iab-irtf-tracker-ext


Dave to provide an update in Chicago.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


