
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**January 24, 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [IAOC Appointment](#2)
3. [IESG Confirmation](#3)
4. [Wildcard Document](#4)
5. [IETF Plenary Planning](#5)
6. [Attendance at ITU-T Study Group on Identity Management](#6)
7. [Infrastructure ENUM](#7)
8. [Review of Specific Actions](#8)
9. [Review of Documents](#9)
10. [Regular Reports](#10)
11. [AOB](#11)
12. [Executive Session](#12)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC



**ABSENT**  

Olaf Kolkman  

David Meyer  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair


#### 1.3 Minutes


The IAB approved the minutes of the January 10 meeting.


### 2. IAOC Appointment


See Executive Session.


### 3. IESG Confirmation


See Executive Session.


### 4. Wildcard Document


Deferred.


### 5. IETF Plenary Planning


The IAB discussed some possible plenary agenda topics. The topics will be reviewed again and a proposal made during the next call.


### 6. Attendance at ITU-T Study Group on Identity Management


Kurtis reported that he will attend except for one day.


### 7. Infrastructure ENUM


There is posibility of an upcoming liaison activity between the IETF and the ITU-T on carrier use of ENUM and its potential impact in DNS space. The IAB should be getting a note from the ENUM chairs in the next couple of weeks on this.


### 8. Review of Specific Actions


* Anycast text
Kurtis expects to have some text on anycast very soon.


### 9. Review of Specific Documents


* authentication mechanisms
Eric reported that he has begun to look at Bernard’s list and will produce something very soon.
* Multilink subnets
The IAB discussed an issue raised by Alfred Hoenes in a deployment scenario where a multilink subnet was required. The IAB concluded that there may be real cases where multilink subnets cannot be avoided, but that does not change the advice to protocol designers that is represented in this document. Dave Thaler agreed to incorporate comments received and accepted and to prepare a version that is ready for a call for community input.
* Multiple encapsulations
This document after a couple of earlier attempts to publish is indeed now ready to publish and the new version has been sent to the RFC Editor.


### 10. Regular reports


#### IESG Liaison ReportDan Romascanu


1. The IESG discussed in the 1/11 telechat the Charter proposals for three new Working Groups – Peer-to-Peer Session Initiation Protocol (p2psip), Media Server Control (mediactrl), and Provisioning of Symmetric Keys (keyprov). keyprov and p2psip were sent to community review and are on the agendas of the 1/25 telechat and 2/8 telechat respectively for approval as new Working Groups.
2. The IESG hold an informal call on 1/18 with the principal scope of solving some of the long-holding DISCUSSes, making progress and clearing DISCUSSes on a number of documents.
3. The first two IONs (IETF Operational Notes) have been submitted for public review and approved according to the process described in RFC4693 .The two notes deal with the ION format and store. Subsequently a couple of new IONs were proposed and are on the agenda of the 1/25 IESG telechat.
4. The nemo working group is re-chartering and its updated charter is up for discussion for the 1/25 IESG telechat. See the separate mail from Jari Arkko with the charter text and call for feedback.


#### RFC Editor ReportSandy Ginoza


1. We are beginning to experiment the with expanded use of XML by using the source file during AUTH48. This has been made possible by our increased internal XML processing and training, and by the cooperation of the xml2rfc team.
2. We aim to increase the effectiveness and coverage of the RFC Editor tutorial. There are several issues: (1) Sunday afternoons many IETFers have not yet arrived; (2) the content should be useful for oldies as well as newbies; (3) there is a significant interconnection between RFC editing and IANA processing, so we are discussing with IANA the possibility of their participation in the tutorial.
We welcome suggestions on addressing these problems.
3. As discussed with the IAB and IESG in an email exchange during December 2006, we have posted a number of unverified errata, and we will continue to do so as resources allow.


#### IRTF ReportAaron Falk


Nothing to report.


#### ISOC ReportLynn St. Amour


Nothing to report.


#### ICANN Nomcom ReportLucy Lynch


The IAB received the following report from the ICANN nomcom liaison, Lucy Lynch.


The members of the 2007 Nominating Committee are: George Sadowsky (Chair),  

Adam Peake (Associate Chair),  

Karen Banks,  

Ken Fockler,  

Michael Froomkin,  

Sandy George,  

Tony Harris,  

Wolfgang Kleinwaechter,  

Lucy Lynch,  

Bill Manning,  

Russ Mundy,  

Lucy Nichols,  

Madanmohan Rao,  

Sebastian Ricciardi,  

Paul Stahura,  

Ken Stubbs,  

Mohammed El Fatih El Tigani Ali,  

Christopher To



Seats up this year:


ICANN BOT (3 year term)  

Joichi Ito 1 month prior to AM2007 29-Sep-2007 Asia/Pacific  

Vinton G. Cerf 1 month prior to AM2007 29-Sep-2007 North America  

Vanda Scartezini 1 month prior to AM2007 29-Sep-2007 Latin America/Caribbean



ALAC (2 year term)  

Alice Wanjira end of AM 2007 Africa  

Siavash Shahshahani end of AM 2007 Asia/Australia/Pacific  

Jacqueline Morris end of AM 2007 Latin America/Caribbean



ccNSO (3 year term)  

Charles Shaban AM 2007 End of AM 2007 Asia/Australia/Pacific



GNSO (2 year term)  

Avri Doria End of AM 2007 North America  

Sophia Bekele End of AM 2007 Africa



There will be a May 1 deadline on apps and several folks (including Vint Cerf) are at the end of term limits.


Recommendations for recruiting welcome.


### 11. AOB


No other business


### 12. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the IAOC Appointment and the IESG Confirmation.




---


These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


