
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**January 10, 2007**




---


### 1. Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Rollcall, Agenda Bash, Minutes](#1)
2. [Discussion of IAOC Appointment](#2)
3. [Liaison Discussion/Appointments](#3)
4. [IETF68 Plenary Agendas](#4)
5. [ITU Focus Group on Identity Management Feb 13-16 Geneva](#5)
6. [Review of Specific Actions](#6)
7. [Review of Specific Documents](#7)
8. [AOB](#8)
9. [Executive Session](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle — IAB Chair  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  

Olaf Kolkman  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Meyer  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang  

Dan Romascanu — Liaison from the IESG  

Aaron Falk — IRTF Chair  

Phil Roberts — IAB Executive Director  

Lynn St. Amour — Liaison from ISOC



**ABSENT**  

Brian Carpenter — IETF Chair  

Sandy Ginoza — Liaison from the RFC Editor


#### Approval of Minutes


Approved minutes of December 20 business meetings.


### 2. Discussion of IAOC Appointment


See executive session.


### 3. Liaison discussion/appointments


#### Cablelabs


The IAB is expecting final text for an I-D describing the proposed liaison.


### 4. IETF68 Plenary Agendas


The IAB discussed the possible agenda for plenary meetings during IETF 68. There are indispensible activites for all plenaries including the host presentation, and the question and answer time for the IAOC, the IESG, and the IAB. The question and answer time is particularly important during this meeting as it is the meeting with the new IESG and IAB are seated. There is also an expectation of a technical discussion and this time there is the possibility of using a 2 hour slot during plenary time to have a potential BOF discussing the next steps in routing and addressing (as a result of the IAB workshop on the same in 2006). There has been a tradition of also having a slot for a potential IRTF presentation. Meeting all of these goals in Prague may be challenging. The IAB intends to discuss this further at the next business meeting.


Eric agreed to draft some text on the qualitative expectations of any technical talk we choose to host in a plenary.


The IAB had previously considered inviting leadership from IEEE 802 to discuss their work plans to highlight possible areas of joint interest between the IETF and the IEEE, but it will not be possible at this meeting.


### 5. ITU Focus Group on Identity Management Feb 13-16 Geneva


The ITU has created a new work item on identity management and they are having their first focus group meeting during the ITU meeting on Feb 13-16. The IAB would like to have an observer for fact finding and reporting to determine whether there is related IETF work to be done or connected. It is possible that an IAB member may be able to attend but is yet unclear.


### 6. Upcoming Techchats


The IAB discussed upcoming techchats. Kevin Fall and Lixia Zhang will discuss current research in routing during the January techchat. Between the technical slot for the IAB during IETF 68 and the February tech chat, the IAB would like to have discussions on emergency preparedness, and on potential followups to the unwanted traffic workshop. The IAB will determine based on schedule availabilities how to allocate those chat slots.


### 7. Review of Specific Actions


* Draft tracker proposal
Phil sent the IAB part of the draft tracker proposal to Henrik and believes it is done.
* Anycast text
Kurtis expects to have some text on anycast very soon.


(See [Appendix A](#a))


### 8. Review of Documents


* authentication mechanisms
Bernard created a list of 20 issues from discussions on the SAAG list about this document. Eric proposed to go through this list in the next couple of weeks and publish proposed resolutions to the IAB mailing list.
* link indications
Bernard is in the process of completing updates and would like to get some review from the transport directorate. He expects a new version to be out next week.
* Multilink subnets (Thaler)
This document is in IAB last call but Dave Thaler hasn’t received any comments yet. Will be kept for the next business meeting in hopes of receiving feedback.
* Internet Transparency (Bernard)
Bernard updated after IETF 67. Would like feedback from the IAB about whether this is the correct mix of topics for this document.
* Encapsulates Draft (Bernard)
Bernard received some last minute comments he needs to look at. The IAB agreed with the assessment that this document probably doesn’t need to document examples from ATM.
* Unwanted traffic report (Loa)
Loa stated that this document is about ready to go, and agreed to publish a -01 version with comments received to now incorporated, then to issue an IAB last call. The goal is to have this published before Prague.
* RAW report (DMM)
Dave Meyer has received both good comments and good text. Will revise the current document and
* RFC Editor
* IAB Publication
Leslie has received comments on how to update these and hopes to get a revision done and out to last call very soon.


(See [Appendix B](#b))


### 8. AOB


None.


### 9. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the IAOC appointment.


### Appendix A – Action Items


#### IAOC Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** February 2006   

**Goal:** Handle the IAB’s appointment to the IAOC, per RFC 4333.   

**Old Status:** IAOC appointment questionnaire updated and ready to be shipped.  

**New Status:** Questionnaires received from potential candidates. Selectioin to be completed by Jan 25.


#### ISOC BoT Appointment


**Assigned to:** Phil Roberts  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Goal:**Handle the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees  

**Old Status:** Timeline ready to be shipped on community in January.  

**New Status:** Timeline announcement sent to community.


#### Workshop on Bad Traffic


**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle, etc   

**Initiated:** October 2005   

**Goal:** Hold an IAB workshop on Unwanted Traffic.  

**Old Status:** comments incorporated. Needs internal review, then ready to be published.


#### RAW Workshop Report


**Assigned to:** DMM  

**Initiated:** Sep 2006  

**Goal:** To produce a report on the workshop in a timely manner  

**Old Status:** Release of first version is about to happen.  

**New Status:** First version published


#### Data Tracker for IAB docs


**Assigned to:** Phil  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** Produce a plan in November; complete execution in December  

**Old Status:** First draft of document flow completed. Revision needed.  

**New Status:** Update sent to Henrik


#### Anycast


**Assigned to:** Kurtis  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** produce a draft on protocol considerations for anycast suitability  

**Status:** First draft of proposed text available by year-end.  

**New Status:** Text expected RSN.


#### Addressing RFC Editor Question about submissions from individuals beyond working groups


**Assigned to:** Leslie  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Goal:** Integrate this with the other documents on RFC editor process  

**Old Status:** A page on the IAB website will be created with current progress on all of these documents




---


### Appendix B – Document Status


#### Design Choices When Expanding DNS


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-dns-choices-03.txt>   

**Assigned to:** Olaf Kolkman, Patrik Faltstrom   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** waiting on publication of RFC 2929bis to include as a normative reference


#### A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-auth-mech-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Eric Rescorla   

**Initiated:** April 2002   

**Old Status:** Bernard will provide input by year-end.  

**New Status:** Bernard provided a list of 20 open issues. EKR will review and post


#### Untangling Activeware


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-nat-traversal-considerations-00.txt>(expired)   

**Assigned to:** Lixia Zhang and Dave Oran  

**Initiated:** April 2004   

**Old Status:** Revisit this in the middle of January.


#### Architectural Implications of Link Layer Indications


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-indications-05.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** June 2004   

**Old status:** will have a new revision by year end 2006.  

**New Status:** Compiling and incorporating changes now. Would like some feedback from the transport directorate


#### Link Layers Supporting Multiple Encapsulations


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-link-encaps-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old Status:** Shipped for publication.  

**New Status:** Some last minute comments have been recieved and are being incorporated.


#### The RFC Series and the RFC Editor


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-rfc-editor-02.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Leslie Daigle   

**Initiated:** April 2006   

**Old status:** A new version is imminent.  

**New status:** Version -02 is out.


#### Multilink Subnets


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-multilink-subnet-issues-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:**Dave Thaler  

**Initiated:**August 2006  

**Old Status:** A revision is about to be published, and then it is ready for IAB last call.   

**New Status:** Determining IAB consensus on this version of the document.


#### Reflections on Internet Transparency


**Link:**<http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-iab-net-transparent-01.txt>  

**Assigned to:** Bernard Aboba  

**Initiated:** September 2006  

**Old Status:** -01 update submitted.  

**New Status:** Requested feedback from the IAB on the right mix of contents for this document


#### Report on Unwanted Traffic Workshop


**Link:**[Link: http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/draft-iab-iwout-report-00.txt](http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-iwout-report/draft-iab-iwout-report-00.txt)  

**Assigned to:** Loa Andersson   

**Initiated:** March 2006   

**Status on 28 Nov 06:** -00 document published 


#### IAB publication


**Link:** http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-publication/draft-iab-publication-00.txt  

**Assignd to:** Leslie Diagle  

**Initiated:** December 2006  

**Status:** -00 document published


#### RAW report


**Link:** http://tools.ietf.org/group/iab/draft-iab-raws-report/draft-iab-raws-report-00.txt  

**Assigned to:** Dave Meyer  

**Initiated:** October 2006  

**Status:** -00 document published.



These minutes were prepared by Phil Roberts. Any comments should be sent to  

[execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at:  [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


