
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**17 October 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [Liaison Reports](#2)
3. [ISO Approved Reference Authority](#3)
4. [T-MPLS](#4)
5. [ITU-T NGN Liaison](#5)
6. [IETF Technical Plenary](#6)
7. [AOB](#7)
8. [Executive Session](#8)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  *(Note-Taker)*  

Sandy Ginoza  *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson *(Teleconference Chair)*  

David Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Lynn St Amour  *(ISOC Liaison)*  

David Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Aaron Falk  *(IRTF Chair)* 



#### 1.3 Approval of Minutes


The minutes of IAB meetings on 2007-09-05 and 2007-09-19 were approved. Approval of the minutes of the IAB meeting on 2007-10-03 were deferred until the next business meeting.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1 IESG Report


Since the last report on Sept 19, 2007, the IESG held two formal telechats, one on Sept 20 and the other Oct 4. In total, 23 internet drafts were brought to the two telechats for review and action by the IESG. One new working group, “IPv6 Maintenance (6man)” was approved, and another new working group, “HyperText Transport Protocol Bis (httpbis)” was approved for IETF review, pending edits from the AD. Two WG recharters were approved for IESG review (dhc, pending AD edits, and nfsv4). On Sept 23, the IPv6 WG was closed. The headline “Conclusion of IP Version 6 (ipv6)” caused unintentional stir on the NANOG mailing list, and in the future the secretariat and IESG will be a bit more careful in how these subject lines are constructed. In addition to document review and WG actions:


On Sept 19 the IETF Secretariat announced to us that Phase I of the Internet-Draft Submission Tool (IDST) had begun. There has already been feedback and response from the WG-Chairs community. The URL for instructions for using the IDST is:


http://www.ietf.org/idsubmit\_instructions.html


On Oct 4, the IESG sent an email to the community re-affirming its reading of RFC 2026 regarding appeals.


There has been a lot of discussion about upcoming BoFs for the Vancouver meeting, please see http://www3.tools.ietf.org/bof/trac/wiki, and remember that there is a joint meeting on October 25.


On Sept 24, Stewart Bryant sent a “Report on ITU-T Q12/15 Meeting In Stuttgart September 2007” to the IESG and IAB. In addition, there have been discussions between the ADs and other IETF members present at this meeting and leaders and members of the ITU-T on press release messages and the like coming out of it.


The ION:


http://www.ietf.org/IESG/content/ions/drafts/ion-2026-practice.html has been undergoing review and update. It is scheduled for a second round of IESG telechat discussion (and possible approval) on Oct 18.


A “Study Groups” Experiment (draft-aboba-sg-experiment) has been discussed at length. No final decision has been made, but I can report that it looks like if an experiment is approved it will be of very limited scope.


Dan Romascanu is looking for a designated expert for draft-ietf-ipfix-info-15.txt [IANA #106002]


The IESG appointed Simon Josefsson as the designated IANA expert for RFC 4422.


The IESG has been discussing and Cullen Jennings has drafted an IESG Statement regarding the deadline for version 00 of Working Group documents.


The IETF hosted mailing lists have had some problems with some users’ autoresponse (“out of the office”) messages. Chris Newman will draft a policy on Autoresponse Messages sent to IETF hosted mailing lists.


The IETF Chair noted that the RFC approval rate from the IESG has gone down in recent months. Jari Arkko provided some analysis based on statistics in the tracker to account for this. There is no one overall conclusion to this observation at this time other than to raise awareness to the ADs. Measurements may be found here: http://www.arkko.com/tools/admeasurements-current/index.html


#### 2.2 IRTF Report


No IRTF report was received.


#### 2.3 RFC Editor Report


1) A beta version of the online errata submission form has been made available to the IAB, IESG, and IRSG, as well as a handful of individuals that have provided a number of errata in the past. Beta login and verification screens are to follow shortly.


http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata.php


draft-rfc-editor-errata-process-00.txt was posted as an ID on 29 August 2007. Some comments & replies are on the rfc-interest list.


http://www.rfc-editor.org/mailman/listinfo/rfc-interest


This is our proposed timeline moving forward:



```

Week of   Action
-------   ------
Oct. 15   Test beta system with individual users; notify SSPs
           (IESG, IAB, IRTF)
Oct. 22   Test continues; SSPs use verification piece; get
           feedback & make fixes
--        Get feedback & make fixes
Nov. 5    Full switch to new system (i.e., old system no
           longer online)
--        Get feedback & make fixes
Dec. 3    IETF 70 (Demo errata system at tutorial Dec. 2)

```

2) We met with IANA and Bill Fenner to discuss future integration of data between the IANA, IESG Secretariat, and RFC Editor. We will meet again in Vancouver.


Danny noted that there had not yet been an opinion voiced on draft-rfc-editor-errata-process-00 by the IAB.


#### 2.4 ISOC Report


– As you know ISOC held a Board Strategic Retreat in early October on Trust. Olaf has sent a memo wrt IAB possible items and a “report” will be published by ISOC in due course (and sent to the IETF leadership). Thanks to Russ, Olaf and Danny for their support and participation.


– I have included below a copy of an invitation to a meeting being hosted by ISOC wrt v4/v6. Report out on meeting to follow (late October).


It was also noted that there would be an ISOC-organised round table in Amsterdam on Monday 22 October at the RIPE NCC offices between the five RIRs and the IETF leadership.


### 3. ISO Approved Reference Authority


The IETF was approached by a representative from ISO/IEC JTC1, with a request to become an Approved Reference Organisation (ARO) in ISO/IEC JTC1. We decided to act upon this request positively. Action on Olaf to return the form.


### 4. T-MPLS


Loa provided a brief review of the need to establish an IETF design team to consider what work might be required to pursue development of T-MPLS within the IETF. It was noted that this design team was intended to carry out preparatory work for the IETF, and was separate from any future group of ITU and IETF participants which might collaborate on design work.


It was decided that the IAB should send a request for participation to the IESG, the ietf@ietf.org list and appropriate IETF working group lists. Loa to draft text.


### 5. ITU-T NGN Liaison


It was agreed unanimously to appoint Monique Morrow to the role of IETF liaison to ITU-NGN. Dave Oran to follow up with Monique on specific details of the duties and role of an IETF liaison manager..


### 6. IETF Technical Plenary


Various possible topics for presentation at the Technical Plenary in Vancouver were discussed. Further review of the proposals received is necessary. No decision was reached.


### 7. AOB


Dave Oran alerted the theIAB to ongoing discussions with the SIP Forum for them to host a bar-BoF activity at the next IETF meeting to engage the community in discussion of how to improve interoperability among SIP implementations. The BoF will likely take the form of a lunchtime workshop where people will be able to present ideas and proposals for where interoperability needs to be improved, and how.


### 8. Executive Session


The IAB entered executive session to discuss the IETF’s appointee to the ICANN NomCom.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley and Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


