
Minutes 
IAB Meeting
--------------------


**24 July 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [ITU-T Meeting Review](#2)
3. [Enterprise Workshop](#3)
4. [NomCom](#4)
5. [Technical Plenary](#5)
6. [Review of Action Items](#6)


#### 1.1 Agenda


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Liaison)*  

Kevin Fall  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Danny McPherson  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Dave Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*


### 2. ITU-T Meeting Review


It was noted that there was an informal meeting between IAB and ITU-T leadership in Chicago, held the day before the IETF meeting agenda commenced. The goal of the gathering was to foster inter-personal relationships which might help with future organisational interaction.


### 3. Enterprise Workshop


The proposal to host a routing and addressing workshop directed at enterprises was discussed, in order to determine whether there was forward progress.


The potential utility of such a workshop was discussed at some length. A need for external consultation amongst key enterprise segments was identified. Lixia Zhang, Kevin Fall and Danny McPherson to consult with various enterprises with whom they have appropriate contacts. The topic will be re-visited in September 2007.


### 4. NomCom


The question of whether incumbent members of the IAB should announce to the community their intention to stand again, or not to stand, was discussed. Various personal opinions about consequences of such statements were expressed. After some discussion, it was decided that no IAB statement regarding the intentions of incumbents should be made. It was noted that individuals are free to communicate their intentions (or not) as they see fit.


### 5. Technical Plenary


Logistics for the technical plenary were discussed. The IAB Chair’s slideset had been circulated prior to the meeting, and there was no further feedback received.


### 6. Review of Action Items


Review of action items was deferred due to lack of time.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


