
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**20 June 2007**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [NomCom Process for 2007](#2)
3. [BOF Signup](#3)
4. [Action Status Update](#4)
5. [Document Status Update](#5)


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  

Leslie Daigle  

Kevin Fall  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Dave Oran  

Eric Rescorla  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lynn St Amour *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**  

Barry Leiba  

Danny McPherson  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Liaison)*


#### 1.3. Approval of Minutes


Minutes of the May 16 and June 6 conference calls were approved.


### 2. IAB Retreat Reflections


There was some brief discussion regarding archival of notes from the retreat.


### 3. Liaison Issues


#### 3.1. ITU-T NGN Liaison


The ongoing need for an ITU-T NGN liaison, replacing Scott Brim, was discussed. There was some concern voiced over the difficulty in finding candidates who are sufficiently involved in the ITU-T but who are also experienced IETF contributors. Eric Rescorla undertook to consult within the IETF community in order to gauge others’ opinions about this liaison role, and also to find potential candidates.


#### 3.2. UTC Liaison


It was noted that the IAB had received e-mail suggesting that there was a communication problem between the Unicode Type Consortium and the IETF. In particular there is concern about IDNbis work taking place on a non-IETF mailing list, outside the IETF process. Leslie and Elwyn are working on possible strategies to resolve the observed issues.


#### 3.3. Liaison to DSL Forum


Mark Townsley presented an overview of the DSL Forum, and there was discussion about the overlap between the DSL Forum’s work and the IETF, and the potential value to both the DSL Forum and the IETF of appointing a formal liaison. Comparisons were drawn to Cablelabs. There was consensus that the establishment of a formal liaison had potential benefits for the IETF. Mark undertook to raise the issue with the DSL Forum in order to gauge their feelings.


#### 3.4. T-MPLS


Loa Andersson reported that several IETF WG chairs are very concerned about further development of IETF protocols by the ITU, in particular that the diverged Transport MPLS protocol set poses a threat to interoperability with IETF protocols due to the re-use of IETF-assigned code points.


It was agreed that this issue should be raised in the informal meeting between ITU-T and IETF leadership in Chicago, and that further discussion of possible approaches between the IAB and IESG would be worthwhile.


#### 3.5. Cablelabs Liaison


Dave Oran was not present on the call to give an update on candidates for this role.


#### 3.6. WiMax


It was noted that the WiMax Forum had expressed interest in establishing a formal liaison with the IETF. Dave Thaler undertook to consult with WiMax Forum people who are already active in the IETF as individuals in order to gain greater insight of the potential benefits to both organisations.


### 4. Instructions to the NomCom Liaison


It was noted that the IESG has established a set of principles with which to provide guidance to their NomCom Liaison. The question of what guidance the IAB should provide to its NomCom Liaison postponed until the IESG’s guidance could be reviewed.


### 5. IESG Report


### 6. IRTF Report


### 7. RFC Editor Report


### 8. ISOC Report


### 9. Agenda for Chicago IETF


The schedule for IAB meetings in Chicago was confirmed. It was noted that there is currently nothing scheduled for the technical plenary apart from the usual IAB update. Several possible topics were discussed, but none were chosen.




---


These minutes were prepared by Joe Abley. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/minutes/)


