
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-08-13
-------------------------------------


Note: This was a special meeting originally intended to test  

the Marratech conferencing system. Due to a meeting conflict  

with ISOC, the normal voice bridge was used instead. The topic  

for discussion was internationalization of various IETF protocols.


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Andy Malis  

Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


### 2. Discussion of Internationalized Domain Names and IETF Protocols


Dave Thaler described how his attention had recently been drawn to  

several standing issues with the use of internationalized domain  

names, and more generally, the internationalization of various IETF  

protocols. The IAB decided to look into these issues further,  

partly due to recent ICANN efforts in allocating internationalized  

domain names (and possibly TLDs). Dave had previously introduced  

the topic via an email to the IAB, and during the call summarized  

some of the key points:


– different parts of the IETF are using different encodings (e.g.,  

UTF-8, punycode, etc.)


– there have been past IAB statements in this area, but the  

guidance may not be entirely consistent or clear.


– what is implemented in real-world code does not always match the  

RFCs, nor is it consistent across OSs or applications.


Dave went on to describe the properties of punycode and UTF-8, and  

Olaf and Stuart explained the various encodings used in the  

software and interfaces they were familiar with. There was a  

discussion about known limitations when converting between  

encodings, such as ASCII, UTF-8, UTF-16, and punycode. All of  

these formats are used at one point or another in common  

implementations (e.g., Windows, OS X, Internet Explorer, Safari,  

DNS, etc.). Stuart noted how a browser or other application will  

often attempt to guess the proper encoding if left unspecified in  

the source file, leading to unpredictable behavior. Other problems  

result from inconsistent byte-ordering conventions, and memory  

allocation is complicated by the variable length encoding of  

UTF-8, UTF-16, and punycode. In short, there are a number of open  

issues with the current use of multiple encodings, where additional  

guidance in this area might be helpful.


The group considered a scenario where an IETF WG is inventing a new  

protocol and must decide which encoding to use. There have been  

several RFCs on this, most recently RFC 4690. A common challenge  

is how to maintain backward compatibility with old software while  

moving to a new, clean standard. Olaf explained the way DNS has  

fairly strict conventions of when 8-bit clean data is required, and  

that many applications (including DNS itself) will not do an 8-bit  

clean comparison but will perform ASCII case folding. Barry added  

that this question of the on-wire interface does not even address  

what the user sees in their browser or mail agent. This led to a  

long discussion of the different interfaces within the overall  

system: user / GUI presentation, interfaces between software  

components on a single host, and communication on the wire.


It was agreed that Internationalization of Domain Names (IDN) is  

only a part of the overall problem space, and that the multiple-  

protocol aspect of the space warrants further IAB consideration.  

Several independent test cases were identified, and Stuart, Dave,  

Olaf, and Barry will coordinate further on a set of small-scale  

encoding tests involving a mixture of dns, smtp, imap, and http.  

Existing test pages constructed by the community will also be  

leveraged in assessing the current state of interoperability.


Dave Thaler will summarize the current list of known issues in  

order to determine next steps for the IAB.


