
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**16 January 2008**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash](#1)
2. [Executive Session](#2)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  
   

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Kevin Fall  
   

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  
   

Barry Leiba  
   

Danny McPherson  

David Oran  
   

Eric Rescorla  
   

Dave Thaler  
   

Lixia Zhang  




**APOLOGIES**  

Kurtis Lindqvist  
   

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  




NOTE: IAB liaisons did not participate in this meeting.


### 2. Executive Session


The IAB convened an executive session to discuss the IESG Slate and IAB information needs for the confirmation process. At the meeting, the IAB concluded that there was insufficient information to confirm the candidates at this time. In particular, it was determined that making a decision now would be premature at best without first obtaining the nominees’ completed questionnaires (albeit, with potentially sensitive or questionable content redacted and indicated as such.)


In order to prevent future misunderstandings with respect to IAB information needs, an action was taken to create a wiki reference page for NomCom liaisons. In addition, Danny will provide to the NomCom Design Team a summary of the problems being experienced during this confirmation process as well as current ambiguities in RFC 3777 that have lead to the contention in the IAB confirmation step.


It was determined that the questionnaire feedback related to IETF liaison activity would be useful input. A request will be made to the NomCom to provide a summarized version of this feedback.


Eric Rescorla recused himself from the discussion of the APP AD nominee.




---


These minutes were prepared by Danny McPherson and Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/iabmins/)


