
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**2 April 2008**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Administrivia](#1)
2. [IAB Stream and IPR](#2)
3. [United Nations and Enhanced Cooperation](#3)
4. [IAB Liaison Shepherds](#4)
5. [Retreat Logistics](#5)
6. [Retreat Papers / Architecture Topics](#6)
7. [Action Item Status](#7)
8. [Document Status](#8)
9. [ISOC Board of Trustees Discussion](#9)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo   

Stuart Cheshire   

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Gregory Lebovitz   

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour  

Dow Street *(IAB Executive Director*  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley *(IESG liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**


Aaron Falk *(IRTF Chair)*  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*



#### 1.3 Meeting Minutes


It was noted that there is a significant backlog of IAB meeting minutes, and the IAB discussed a plan for incumbent members to assist in drafting minutes for past meetings. Dow Street will review the material and notes provided by Joe Abley, and will coordinate with IAB members to develop the minutes.


### 2. IAB Stream and IPR


The IAB discussed whether IAB stream documents are covered and/or should be covered by the provisions in draft-ietf-ipr-3978-08.txt. There are two documents currently in last call that would be impacted by the determination. After a brief discourse, there was unanimous agreement by board members that IAB stream documents should fall within scope of these rules. It was also noted that different rules likely apply for IRTF stream and Independent stream documents. The IAB chair will draft a letter to the last call relaying this decision.


### 3. United Nations and Enhanced Cooperation


The Internet Society received a letter from the UN Undersecretary requesting a progress update on the “enhanced cooperation” guidance in the Tunis declaration. Olaf Kolkman (IAB chair), Russ Housley (IETF Chair) and others on the IAB have been coordinating with Bill Graham, the Internet Governance specialist for ISOC. Leslie Daigle and Lynn St. Amour have also been assisting. ISOC is in the process of drafting a memo on the core principals of the Internet and its institutions. The IAB will assist ISOC in this matter, and expects to formally endorse the ISOC memo to the UN. 


The IAB also discussed recent activity in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). It was determined that there were no immediate OECD-related actions for the IAB, largely due to the IAB’s limited role in policy issues.



### 4. IAB Liaison Shepherds


The board reviewed current liaison relations between the IETF and other organizations, and discussed a possible approach for regularizing coordination between liaisons and IAB members. David Oran has been shepherding two liaisons for some time, and offered to draft some initial material on the topic. The topic was also added as an agenda item for the upcoming IAB retreat.


### 5. Retreat Logistics


The group made final preparations for the IAB annual retreat, which will be held 25-26 April 2008 in Stockholm, SE. The bulk of the retreat agenda will be dedicated to technical discussion of Internet architecture topics (see next agenda item). There will also be some retreat time used to address current IAB business items, namely Liaison Shepherds, RFC Editor Model, and the Headers and Boilerplates document. 


### 6. Retreat Papers / Architecture Topics


The plan for the IAB retreat is for each member to present one or more shortpapers on an Internet architecture topic of interest. These presentations will guide the technical discussion, and provide the raw material for developing an internal IAB work plan for the coming year. The group coordinated on the approach for developing these papers.


### 7. Action Item Status


#### 7.1. IAB NAT-PT


It was determined that ongoing IETF work, particularly activity in IPv6 ops, largely covers the intended scope of this action item. The IAB action item will be marked as concluded, but the IAB will continue to engage in ongoing IETF activities in this area. 


#### 7.2. OMA Liaison


There was a brief discussion of Dean Willis’ interest and ability to continue in this role. As of the last report, Dean indicated he would be able to remain as OMA Liaison, so no change is needed at this time. Barry Lieba will coordinate with Dean on the matter in the coming weeks. 


#### 7.3. Unwanted Traffic


Loa Andersson reported slow but steady progress on this topic, including plans for he and Aaron Falk (IRTF chair) to meet with some individuals the week of the IAB retreat. There was a brief discussion of whether the IAB needed to keep a formal action item for this, or if the work had sufficiently transitioned to the V6OPS WG, NANOG, and the research community. Lixia Zhang has been working to organize a workshop in conjunction with the October NANOG, in an attempt to bridge the gap between the academic and operational communities. It was decided to leave the item as a trackable IAB action for the time being. 


#### 7.4. Anycast


Danny McPherson drafted a document based partly on Dave Oran’s recent techchat. Dave is currently reviewing that draft. No immediate IAB actions for this item. 


#### 7.5. ENUM


The IAB is waiting on a draft from the ENUM group. Olaf will contact them to obtain an updated version. 


#### 7.6. ICANN NomCom


This item was basically deferred until the yearly cycle. Olaf will forward process information from the previous ICANN NOM. 


### 8. Document Status


#### 8.1. What Makes for a Successful Protocol


Dave Thaler reported that this document is currently in last call. There has been some feedback, but so far the additional suggested cases have not added new conditions that were not previously covered by existing examples. IAB members were asked to provide any final comments on the document to Dave Thaler. 


#### 8.2. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


It was decided to wait until after the IAB retreat before sending this document to IAB last call, so as to allow for review by the incoming IAB members. There was no immediate further action on the document.


#### 8.3. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Olaf noted that the last call on this document will expire shortly, and that there have been no recent comments on the latest revision. Stuart Cheshire will work with Patrik Faltstrom to incorporate remaining IAB comments. 


#### 8.4. DNS Synthesis Concerns


This document has been in a dormant state for some time. Though there was consensus on the value of the document, it was also agreed that there was no immediate deadline necessary for moving the document forward. The IAB will keep this on their task list for now as a lower priority. New IAB members were requested to review the current draft and provide comments. 


#### 8.5. A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Eric Rescorla had been leading the development of this document. Olaf will contact Eric and Bernard Aboba to coordinate who will carry the document forward now that Eric has left the IAB. 


#### 8.6. IPv6 Migration: The Way Forward – Strategy and Tools


The group discussed whether this document scope would likely be covered under the NAT-PT item. Dow Street will contact Elwyn Davies, who was the previous point of contact for the draft. 


#### 8.7. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Brian Carpenter had been authoring this document along with Bernard Aboba. Dave Thaler noted that Brian had (previously) been interested in having a sitting IAB member act as co-author. The IAB will consider whether to take up the document within the IAB or leave it as an individual submission. Stuart Cheshire and Barry Lieba agreed to talk to Brian and determine next steps. 


#### EXECUTIVE SESSION

9. ISOC Board of Trustees Discussion
The IAB entered an executive session to consider candidates for the ISOC Board of Trustees. At this point, non-voting members of the IAB dropped off the call. There was general agreement within the IAB that the slate of candidates was quite good:

Mike St. Johns 
Jordi Palet Martinez 
Bert Wijnen 
Suzanne Woolf 
Randal Gellens 
Tony Hansen 
Peter Koch

After deliberation, the IAB selected Bert Wijnen as their candidate for the ISOC BoT. Olaf will inform ISOC of the decision. 


---


These minutes were prepared by Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/iabmins/)

