
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-10-01
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Stuart Cheshire  

Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

David Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


##### ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS


Patrik Faltstrom  

Pete Resnick


##### APOLOGIES:


Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow noted that a new page has been added to the IAB wiki for  

tracking small action items. Several items were also added to the  

meeting agenda (see AOB).


#### 1.4. Review of Meeting Minutes


The group approved final minutes for the 2008-09-03 IAB business  

meeting.


### 2. ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2 Liaison


Two related liaison issues were considered. Barry explained that  

the WIPO liaison has been basically non-existent, and that Patrik  

Faltstrom, the current IETF liaison to WIPO, has had no work to do  

here for some time. Barry suggested that the IAB consider  

eliminating the formal liaison relationship, noting that it could  

always be reinstated at a later date if needed. Patrik explained  

that the liaison had been created some time ago as an aftermath of  

previous DNS work, back before ICANN existed when the IETF had the  

oversight committee. He has been the liaison since Herald was IETF  

chair, and there has been zero activity over that time. In fact,  

the liaison counterpart on the WIPO side is not currently known.  

In light of this, the board agreed to have Patrick take steps to  

(1) identify the appropriate WIPO representative and (2) terminate  

the liaison relationship in a mutually agreeable manner.


The second liaison issue concerns the relationship with JTC1-SC2.  

Pete Resnik is the current IETF liaison for this interface with  

ISO, and he recently sent a report summarizing the situation. JTC1  

SC2 is ISO’s character set activity, and it too has seen little  

activity as of late. Barry observed that this work is related to  

the unicode character set work, for which Patrick is currently the  

liaison, and suggested that perhaps Patrick could cover this  

liaison also given the low level of activity. Olaf asked whether  

it was worth retaining this formal liaison arrangement. Most IETF  

work has transitioned to unicode formats, but mail still makes use  

of ISO character sets. It was decided that Pete should look into  

the history of why the JTC1-SC2 liaison was created, confer with  

Patrick, and get back to the IAB with a recommendation on whether  

to retain or dissolve the SC2 liaison.


### 3. IRTF Stream Document Approval


Aaron updated the group on the IRTF stream document. This draft  

has been around for a while and has had few changes for several  

months. There was a recent change to the publication track; it was  

moved from a BCP to an Informational document. Aaron requested  

that the IAB approve the draft, at which point it will go to the  

RFC Editor for publication. Olaf noted that this document goes  

along with 3932bis and the Headers and Boilerplates draft, mainly  

due to the changes to the kind of IESG statements that are allowed.  

The IRTF Stream document could only go into effect once those are  

approved. Olaf is working with Leslie Daigle on the H&B draft, and  

the 3932bis is in IETF last call.


The IAB approved the IRTF stream document.


### 4. IAB Plenary Topics Planning


Andy and Loa have created a list of potential topics for future IAB  

plenaries, and the topic “MPLS at 12 years” was tentatively  

selected for IETF 74. The talk would tie into the protocol success  

work. Loa agreed to lead the planning for this session, which will  

likely involve several speakers from the community. Other topics  

on the list were IP Model Evolution, Network Neutrality, MPLS-TP,  

and IP in 4G wireless networks. Dave Thaler will be presenting IP  

Model Evolution at the IETF 73 Plenary.


### 5. RFC Editor Model


Olaf again encouraged IAB members to engage on the RFC Editor Model  

discussion, and gave a update on the current state. Recent debate  

has focused on the RFC Editorial board’s role. It looks likely that  

this will evolve into one or more advisory boards for the  

Independent Stream Editor and the RFC Editor functions. He then  

requested the IAB to decide on several specific items:


(a) That the model as currently described will serve as the basis  

for the implementation by the IAOC.


That would allow the IAOC to start the RFI process, and write the  

statements of work, and ensure that the model can be implemented  

by 2009.


The model allows for the IAB to appoint a sub-committee that advises  

the IAB and IAOC


(b) While the IAOC and the IAB have their specific role. We need to  

create some expertise within the IAB and IAOC and if possible draw  

expertise from the Editorial board too. One sub-committee to keep  

oversight over the selection and make recommendations to IAB and  

IAOC.


(c) The IAB will request the IAOC to devise a preferred method for  

selecting the Independent Submission Editor and RFC Editor. This  

selection method could be through an RFI, or could be through a  

less formal approach (e.g., IAB selection). Also, if either  

function is supported by a stipend, the IAB will request that the  

IAOC establish the monetary level of the stipend. In this manner,  

the IAB will have a heads-up as to whether to begin a selection  

process.


(d) The new model will be published as an RFC later. Version 00 of  

the draft will be used to kick-off the process, with the  

that some tweaks will occur during the initial implementation.


– the draft 00 model will be in the ID repository soon  

– the text can be tweaked slightly if issues are found during the  

implementation


Russ expressed his support for this plan, adding that he believes  

the model will result in cost savings. He also stated that he felt  

having the Independent submission series stand with a parallel  

administrative to the other streams was a positive change. Kurtis  

also thought this structure would clarify the responsibilities of  

the functions for the IAOC. There were no objections from other  

IAB members. Olaf will also initiate a consensus call on the RFC  

interest list.


### 6. Action Item Status


#### 6.1. Anycast


(no change in status)


#### 6.2. Infrastructure ENUM Document


(no change in status)


### 7. Document Status


#### 7.1. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


The document will go to IETF call for comments this week.


#### 7.2. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Dave Thaler recently requested the IAB to review new suggestions  

in the document relating to the use of unknown resource record  

types in corporate environments. The review period is still open.


#### 7.3. DNS Synthesis Concerns


(no change in status)


#### 7.4. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


(no change in status)


#### 7.5. Evolution of the IP Model


(no change in status)


7.6. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Stuart will coordinate with Brian Carpenter on this draft.


(no change in status)


### 8. AOB


#### 8.1. Experimental RFCs


Loa observed a possible emerging trend, where RFCs are being marked  

as ‘Experimental’ when they are not qualified to be standards  

track. This is a different use of the track than seen previously,  

where experimental RFCs document actual experiments or experimental  

technologies. He cited examples on the IESG list of comments like  

“this is not well enough written for PS, but I would agree to  

experimental”.


Russ asked whether we really want experiments in the experimental  

track, or whether the intent of such RFCs was to assess whether the  

market wants a particular technology. Stuart added that it is  

difficult to determine whether a problem exists without specific  

examples. Loa will try and write something down by the next IETF  

meeting, at which point the IAB will consider it further.


#### 8.2. Blacklists and Reverse Lookup of DNS Names


The IAB had previously received mail from Claudio Allocchio  

regarding the blocking of traffic to Perugia Academic Research  

Network based solely on a DNS name that included the string ‘dyn’.  

Claudio had previously contacted the blocking provider to correct  

the situation, and finding little success, forwarded the message on  

to the IAB for comment. Kurtis has drafted a response, and will  

send it to the IAB list for review.


#### 8.3. IETF Journal Article


Gregory has written an article for the IETF Journal summarizing the  

IETF 72 IPv6 Plenary. He has been coordinating on the draft with  

plenary panelists, and solicited comments from the rest of the IAB.


#### 8.4. IAOC Selection Process


Olaf noted that the time is approaching for the IAB to select an  

IAOC candidate, and asked for a volunteer to manage this process.  

He will work offline to identify said volunteer.


#### 8.5. IPv4/IPv6 Interim Meeting


There was a brief discussion of the upcoming IPv4/IPv6 interim  

meeting. Dave Thaler had indicated previously that he would  

be attending.


#### 8.6. Host Config Document


Olaf reported that the document “Principles of Internet Host  

Configuration” has been updated to draft -07 and is ready for a  

community call for comments.


#### 8.7. BOF call


Olaf reminded the group of the upcoming BOF call on 10/3, where the  

IESG and IAB will review BOF requests for IETF 73.


#### 9. Conclude Call


