
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-10-08
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Stuart Cheshire  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

David Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler


##### ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS:


Mark Townsley (for IPv6 / Firewall discussion)


##### APOLOGIES


Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Andy Malis  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


### 2. RFC Format / Description of IETF ITU-T Joint Working Team


Loa reported on the recent efforts of the JWT in documenting the  

current agreement between the IETF and ITU-T. All the important  

information describing the agreement is captured in a set of  

slides, which represent the normative reference agreed to by both  

parties. However, the team has been unable to translate this  

information into ASCII text suitable for submission to the RFC  

Editor. As it stands there are two independent versions: a  

normative PDF, and an ASCII text version that provides introductory  

information, but is lacking key details of the agreement.


At present, PDF versions of RFCs cannot serve as the normative  

reference. Russ asked the IAB, in its series oversight role, to be  

prepared to set this new precedent. It was stated that there is no  

feasible way to capture the relevant information in ASCII text,  

since it was the slides themselves that constitute the agreement.  

Barry expressed support for setting this precedent, and Russ agreed  

that doing so might break some ground.


Dave Thaler asked why it was necessary to publish the agreement as  

an RFC. Loa replied that this is a landmark agreement with another  

SDO that needs to be documented in an archival fashion, and that  

the ITU-T does not have its own archival format. Olaf asked which  

stream the document would take, suggesting it might be best to set  

the smallest precedent possible. Russ felt that it needed to be an  

IETF stream document document since it establishes an agreement  

between the IETF and an outside organization. Dave Thaler and Olaf  

expressed additional hesitation, noting that if any other  

alternatives within the existing framework are feasible, that those  

would be preferred. Loa responded that they had tried hard to come  

up with an alternative approach, but were unsuccessful.


There was further discussion about (a) the advantages of ASCII text  

over PDF as the standard archival format, (b) non-RFC publication  

options (e.g., liaison statement), and (c) how any new precedent  

might be limited. Dow asked for clarification that this precedent  

would make normative PDFs permissible, but not required; Russ  

concurred. Loa added that the precedent could be limited to only  

those situations involving two different organizations that do not  

have a common file format. Russ also noted that the precedent  

would not apply to protocols or standards track documents, only to  

inter-organizational agreements. Barry stated that he would rather  

the application not be so narrow, to which Russ suggested a  

step-by-step approach toward larger changes.


Several board members expressed concern over how these ‘limits’ to  

the precedent would play out if pushed against by authors who  

simply prefer PDF over ASCII. Despite potential ambiguity in this  

area, and acknowledging the stated concerns, the board agreed to  

support the publication of a normative PDF and informational ASCII  

document. Russ and Loa will work with the IESG to move the  

documents forward.


### 3. IPv6 and Firewalls


The meeting then moved to the techchat topic of IPv6 and Firewalls.  

This was a long technical discussion with several partially  

overlapping topics, including the value proposition of firewalls,  

IPv6 deployment considerations, and the role of NATs. Stuart  

introduced the topic, and has been trying to coalesce IAB dialogue  

in this area into one or more document outlines.


The group considered the relationship of NAT, router, and firewall  

functions, and how one might describe the competing goals of  

enabling and limited access and/or communication. Key to this  

deconstruction seems to be the concept of an ‘authorized user’,  

for whom communication is enabled, while traffic of unauthorized  

users is prevented. However, there also seems to be an implicit  

tussle among numerous parties that complicates the determination  

of what is authorized. End users may have different goals than the  

administrators of their local network, who may in turn have  

different goals than their upstream provider, or even the remote  

endpoints in other networks with which the local host is  

communicating.


Dow raised the example of increased deployment of IPsec, which can  

be used for authenticating users, but is commonly viewed by network  

administrators as problematic when it obscures the activities of  

local hosts. Gregory described how in their network IPsec is  

permitted only if the session transits an admin-managed proxy  

device. Stuart stated that Apple allows basically all traffic  

\*except\* IPsec. Mark added that Cisco has devices that send  

traffic that is in fact encrypted, but does not look like IPsec.  

Dave Thaler observed that you cannot stop the arms race in code;  

you have to rely on other mechanisms, such as external policy.


There was some agreement that many of the problems come down to  

differing positions on what constitutes acceptable use, but that  

this determination is being made implicitly and indirectly in a  

manner that involves multiple parties and mechanisms. Returning to  

IPv6, the current landscape threatens to erode many of the benefits  

of IPv6 deployment. Stuart used the example of a mobile user who  

is connected at a coffee shop and desires to print a document to  

his or her home printer. It is not that such functionality is  

merely unavailable today, but that users are not even generally  

aware that this type of connectivity is a possibility. It has been  

lost inadvertently without the user realizing what was possible.  

IPv6 provides an opportunity to restore certain end-to-end  

functionality, but it is quickly being eroded.


One possible path forward is to draft a taxonomy of connectivity  

categories, but doing so will be tricky if a debate on network  

neutrality is to be avoided. A few summary points that were made:


– end-to-end connectivity is getting worse due to NATs, security  

gateways, business models, etc


– many of the issues are about more about policy tussles than  

mechanisms.


– it is helpful to consider the functionality of NATs, firewalls,  

routers separately, though to a degree they reside on spectrum  

of functions involved in enabling or denying access.


– there is a window of opportunity with IPv6, before it becomes  

encumbered in the same way as IPv4.


Stuart will attempt to draft a document outline based on today’s  

discussion.


