
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-09-17
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


A short discussion on Internationalizing Domain Names was added to  

the end of the agenda.


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Stuart Cheshire  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

David Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES:


Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson


##### AGENDA


#### 1.3. Review and Approval of Final Meeting Minutes


The following final minutes were approved during this meeting:


2008-03-26 Minutes  

2008-04-02 Minutes  

2008-04-16 Minutes  

2008-08-27 Minutes


The executive director will publish these minutes to the IAB web  

site.


### 2. Liaison Reports [10 min]


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn noted that the joint lunch between the IAB and the ISOC BoT  

has been scheduled for the week of IETF. She also highlighted a  

few other items from the written report.


(begin ISOC liaison written report)


I – A lunch meeting is being organized for IAB, IESG, IAOC and ISOC  

Board members on Friday, November 21st, 2008. Need to finalize  

“invites” with Russ, Olaf, Jonne, etc.


II – ISOC (Leslie Daigle and Lynn St.Amour) will be participating  

at the ITU’s Global Standards Symposium (GSS)  

(http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/wtsa-08/gss/index.html) and the World  

Telecommunication Standardization Assembly (WTSA)  

(http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/wtsa-08/) in Johannesburg, SA in October.


Leslie has a speech at the GSS on October 20th  

(see: http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/wtsa-08/gss/programme.html 15:40 –  

17:20 session) which will focus on the Internet model and approach  

to standards, openness, mechanisms for engagement, etc. We will  

be distributing various fact sheets and meeting with regional and  

national delegations, concentrating on the areas mentioned above.


(end ISOC liaison written report)


#### 2.2. RFC Editor Liaison


Sandy reported that the ISSN is now on the website, but has not yet  

been added to documents. The Editor also installed a new queue  

page, and Sandy requested feedback on the revised functionality.


(begin RFC Editor liaison written report)


RFC Editor Report to the IAB


– The ISSN number for the RFC series (ISSN 2070-1721) is now  

displayed on the main RFC Editor web page.




Placement of the ISSN number in the RFCs is TBD.


– We have installed a new queue page at:  

http://www.rfc-editor.org/queue2.html.


The major features are as follows:


(1) The grouping of drafts in the queue now reflects the actual  

document streams — IETF (4 groups), IRTF, IAB, and  

independent submissions.


(2) A search capability will take you right to the draft(s) whose  

queue status you want to know.


(3) It now returns HTTP hyperlinks, not FTP hyperlinks, to Internet  

Draft text.


(4) It has a link to a search engine that returns the RFC Editor state  

change histories of all drafts we have processed since mid 1999.


(5) It shows the current queue statistics that we send weekly to  

the IETF chair, the IAB chair, and the IAD.


Please see the message sent to the rfc-interest list 12 September  

2008 (Subject: New queue display — update) for more details.


(end RFC Editor liaison written report)


#### 2.3. IESG Liaison


Russ gave a report on behalf of the IESG liaison (who had just  

returned from vacation):


– The IESG gave a response to Todd Glassey’s appeal on September  

2nd. As of now Todd has not filed a subsequent appeal to the IAB,  

but Russ noted that the time window for such action was still open.


– The IESG has received another appeal from JFC Morfin. The IESG  

is in the process of considering that appeal.


– Russ commented on the plans for combining the IAB and IESG  

plenary sessions on a single evening at the next IETF, which would  

provide for additional WG meeting time. Russ had previously posted  

a framework for this “one plenary” experiment and received no  

further comments. The plan is to move forward with the new meeting  

schedule unless significant concerns are raised in the next few  

days.


(no IESG liaison written report was submitted)


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Aaron noted that he had published an update to the IRTF Stream  

definition, and requested a final review be scheduled during the  

upcoming IAB business meeting. The relationship of this draft to  

3932bis was discussed, and Russ reported that 3932bis was also  

nearly ready for publication. Dave Thaler noted that the IRTF  

Stream document formalizes the role of the IRSG, and that IRSG  

membership and actions should be made more transparent going  

forward. Aaron agreed, and took an action to coordinate with the  

IRSG on the matter.


(begin IRTF Chair written report)


Published draft-irtf-rfcs-01.txt; requesting IAB review and  

approval for publication as a BCP under RFC4844.


Corresponding with ALTO BoF chairs about P2P RG activities.  

Initial interest has been on discussion of an empirical study of  

BitTorrent swarms but there is interest in analysis as well. They  

have proposed two new chairs for the RG.


ICCRG, DTNRG, and HIPRG have requested meeting time for IETF-73.


(end IRTF Chair written report)


### 3. ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2 Liaison necessity


Given the low level of activity in recent months, the IAB is  

considering whether an ongoing formal liaison relationship with  

ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2 is still needed. After a brief discussion, this  

agenda item was deferred until the 1 October business meeting.  

Pete Resnik and Patrik Faltstrom will be invited to that meeting  

to provide additional context on the topic.


### 4. “Enhanced Cooperation” Feedback


Some months ago ISOC received a request from UN Under Secretary  

Sha Zuhkang for feedback on “Enhanced Cooperation” in the  

management and oversight of the Internet (and related  

technologies). The language of “Enhanced Cooperation” comes from  

the Tunis Agenda:


http://www.itu.int/wsis/docs2/tunis/off/6rev1.pdf


A similar request was made to other organizations in the Internet  

community. ISOC responded to the request, as did ICANN. In recent  

weeks it was decided that the IAB should also send a response on  

behalf of the IETF. This letter would describe the role of the  

IETF in standards development, as well as explain the open and  

international nature of its technical activities and working  

groups.


At the IAB meeting Olaf summarized the current situation and  

suggested the next step of drafting an outline for an IAB response.  

Olaf and Dow took this action and will send the outline to other  

IAB members before drafting detailed text. The IAB planned to  

coordinate with Bill Graham on the issue. Bill recently drafted  

the ISOC response:


https://wiki.tools.isoc.org/Policy\_Activities/UN\_report\_request/  

Preliminary\_ISOC\_response\_to\_UN\_report\_request/  

Internet\_Society\_Report\_on\_Enhanced\_Cooperation


A related response from ICANN:


http://www.icann.org/correspondence/twomey-to-zukang-06aug08.pdf


### 5. RRG Techchat Planning


Lixia briefly described the current work of the IRTF Routing  

Research Group, and the IAB made plans for a detailed technical  

discussion of the RRG work at their Sept 24 techchat.


### 6. RFC Editor Discussion


There was a long discussion of the proposed (re)structuring of  

the RFC Editor Model. A notable point of the discussion was the  

separation of the RFC Editor and the RFC Production House. Olaf  

explained that the actual IOAC driven implementation of the model  

allowed for these roles to be handled by a single organization if  

such an arrangement was part of the winning proposal. Olaf also  

noted that there had been fairly little engagement on the proposal  

by the community at large, and encouraged further review and  

critique. John Klensin and a few other individuals have provided  

significant input, some of it off-list. Olaf will revise the  

text based on input so far and then post it to the IAB site for  

additional public review. A goal was set to drive toward consensus  

by early Oct, allowing the RFP process to proceed on schedule.


### 7. U.N. and Internet Anonymity


The IAB and IESG have recently become aware that the U.N. and  

several national agencies may be initiating work through the ITU  

SG-17 in the area of IP trace-back. This work raises two distinct  

issues of interest to the IETF:


– privacy of Internet communications  

– the role of the ITU in IP standards


It was noted that issues of privacy are quite complex and could  

involve areas of policy and law that fall outside the focus of the  

IETF. However, if the technology to be employed is based on IP,  

then the IETF would have a natural role as the owner of the  

Internet protocol suite. The group discussed the situation and  

decided that additional information was required before determining  

whether any specific IAB action was needed. Barry and Kurtis will  

work with Scott Bradner and SG-17 on the issue. Scott Bradner is  

the current IETF liaison to the ITU-T.


### 8. NomCom (EXECUTIVE SESSION)


The IAB entered an executive session to discuss IETF NomCom. Dave  

Oran, IAB liaison to the NomCom, summarized recent work to clarify  

which parts of the candidate questionnaire will be shared with the  

IAB during the confirmation step. This pre-work is expected to  

prevent the ambiguity that arose during the previous NomCom.


### 9. AOB [5 min]


#### 9.1. RANS Forum


Olaf noted that he will be participating in the upcoming RANS  

meeting on 23-25 September.


http://www.rans.ru/forum2008/english


On behalf of ISOC and in his role as IAB chair, Olaf will present  

a summary of ISOC, the IETF, and the IAB that is similar to the  

slides presented at the 2008 OECD.


#### 9.2. John Klensin mail on IDN


There was a brief discussion of draft correspondence with John  

Klensin on the topic of Domain Name Internationalization.


### 10. Conclude Call


