
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-05-28
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Stuart Cheshire  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housely (IETF Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)


Note: This was a working meeting for two IAB architecture topics. As  

a result, not all IAB members participated in the discussion.


### 2. IP Model Evolution


Dave Thaler led a discussion on the Evolution of the IP Model. The  

conversation focused on a set of assumptions about the service  

provided by the IP layer to layers above it in the stack. These  

assumptions are stated or implied by various IETF documents, but  

are not currently recorded in a single reference. Furthermore,  

some assumptions have evolved over time and may no longer hold in  

the current Internet. The IAB intends to document these  

assumptions and assess their relevance to current and future IETF  

work.


### 3. IPv6 / Firewalls


Stuart Cheshire led a discussion on the value proposition of IPv6  

and its relation to middle boxes like NATs and firewalls. One of  

the main benefits of IPv6 deployment is the opportunity to restore  

end-to-end characteristics of the network that have been degraded  

over time. However, firewalls deployed according to the current  

IPv4 paradigm are likely to endanger this benefit. The group  

discussed several overlapping issues in this space and will work  

to clarify the scope of a possible IAB document on the topic.


