
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-07-02
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Stuart Cheshire  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz


#### 1.3 Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF 72 Planning


#### 2.1. Overall IAB Schedule for IETF 72


Olaf walked through the IAB schedule for the Dublin meeting. It  

was decided to add time on Sunday for a discussion of the IP Model  

architecture topic. Dave Thaler will lead this session. The group  

also added a Wednesday morning meeting for testing the Marratech  

conferencing software. ISOC already uses this software, and the  

IAB is considering it as an option for reducing conference call  

expenses.


#### 2.2. IETF 72 Technical Plenary


Danny gave an update on preparations for the IETF 72 plenary, which  

is converging to a focus on IPv6 adoption successes and barriers.  

The session may also cover elements of carrier grade NATs and IPv4  

address depletion (including RIR policies), though these would  

likely constitute a secondary theme. The group discussed a list of  

goals for the plenary and then considered potential candidates for  

the technical panel. It was decided to invite 3-4 panelists with  

varying perspectives to give a short talk on the topic. These  

presentations would be followed by an IAB-moderated panel  

discussion and Q&A session. Board members were asked to comment on  

the current plan. Danny will collect comments and provide an  

update next week.


### 3. IANA Wording Update


Danny, Kurtis, and Olaf have been coordinating with Bill Graham and  

Leslie Daigle on recent correspondence with the U.S. Dept. of  

Commerce. The subject of the correspondence is language within the  

DoC contract with ICANN that references the IETF/IAB role in the  

management of the protocol parameter registry. Danny has been  

working on revised text ahead of the Dublin meeting, but it was  

noted that there may not be an immediate need to push through new  

language. There were no specific inputs from the rest of the IAB.  

Danny will give another update at the next business meeting.


### 4. IAB Liaison Shepherds


There was a brief discussion of the updated liaison shepherd role  

description and the current list of IAB shepherd-liaison pairings.  

The plan requires IAB shepherds to communicate with their liaisons  

at least once each month, assist in liaison activities (as needed),  

get periodic reports from the liaison (e.g. prior to an IETF  

meeting), and provide a short update bi-annually to the entire IAB  

on the overall status of the liaison relationship. The group also  

decided that it would be worthwhile to develop an internal list  

of informal affiliations with outside organizations. The purpose  

of this list would be to assist board members in locating other  

members (or external individuals) who have existing relationships  

and/or participation with other SDOs.


### 5. IP Host Configuration Document Review / Status


Dave Thaler reported that he had gotten some feedback on the draft,  

and that the main addition to the last version was new text on  

dual-homed nodes (Danny’s comments). In this area, the draft  

attempts to generalize functionality of dual-stack nodes, and  

references the DHCP-specific RFC as needed. It was decided to  

begin an IETF call for comments sometime next week. Dave will  

send an email to the IAB list with a link to the latest draft,  

which is currently hosted on Bernard’s server.


### 6. NAT-PT / IESG Update


Mark gave an update on NAT-PT and recent discussions within the  

IESG. It appears that the IESG may be heading down a path that  

leans on DNS rather than requiring host changes. This direction  

differs from earlier IAB thinking as was outlined in Elwyn’s slides  

from the Sept IAB meeting. Dave Thaler noted that there does not  

appear to be community consensus on a preferred approach.


Mark had sent out an email with a strawman proposal, to which Dave  

suggested added some introductory material with additional context.  

There is something of an analogy to the IESG approach to the  

routing scalability problem, where the problem was divided into  

nearer term IETF work and longer term IRTF work, but that this  

context was missing in Mark’s existing email. The group walked  

through the Elwyn’s slides. There are a variety of sub-cases in  

this problem space, and Mark indicated that the current IESG plan  

looks to consider out of scope those cases involving IPv4  

origination or requiring host changes. Lixia re-phrased the  

situation as “there may be simple solutions that cover 90% of  

the problem – is it worth the effort to tackle the remaining open  

issues?”


It was decided to add text to Mark’s email that identifies dual-  

stack as the preferred approach, suggests proceeding with v6-v4  

translation for supporting v6 only islands, and defers the case of  

v4 hosts originating sessions to a v6 server. Mark will write a  

draft email and send it to the IAB for review prior to mailing it  

to the larger community. IAB members were requested to provide  

Mark with timely feedback on the proposed text.


### 7. Action Item Status


#### 7.1. Unwanted Traffic RG


Danny reported that the IAB-specific work on this topic is closed  

for now, but that steady, ongoing work is likely outside the IAB.  

There is an IAB draft that has been circulating, but there is no  

immediate deadline for publication. The IAB will revisit this  

document after the next IETF meeting. It was noted that the IAB  

effort in this area had helped to drive a successful investigation  

of the issues, and that much of the space now lies within the scope  

of the IRTF Anti-spam Research Group (ASRG) and the OPS Area of the  

IETF.


#### 7.2. Anycast


Oran is working on comments.


#### 7.3. Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM Document


No update.


#### 7.4. ICANN NomCom


No update.


### 8. Document Status


#### 8.1. What Makes for a Successful Protocol


This document is with the RFC Editor.


#### 8.2. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


Dave Thaler noted that there is one more week for IAB review of  

this document before submission. He will confirm that Lixia’s  

latest comments have been incorporated and will send out email to  

the group.


#### 8.3. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Dave Thaler reported that there were some recent tests to determine  

current server behavior for various record types. He just recently  

sent the test results to Olaf, who will determine if/how they  

impact the current draft.


#### 8.4. DNS Synthesis Concerns


This document is also on Olaf’s plate. Danny recently sent Olaf  

comments, and noted that the area is getting more exposure as of  

late due to cross-domain scripting. It was agreed that there would  

be value in the IAB publishing this document.


#### 8.5. A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Danny reported that he had an updated version of this document, and  

that the plan was for Gregory to take over as editor when he  

returns from vacation. Eric Rescorla and Bernard Aboba have also  

been assisting, and had previously worked on the document while on  

the IAB.


#### 8.6. Headers and Boilerplates


The IAB Stream header needs to be added to this document, and there  

may be some relation between this draft and the errata draft.  

Danny will coordinate with Russ and Olaf on the matter.


### 9. AOB


Barry noted the recent comments at the Philadelphia plenary about  

the increasing number of DISCUSSes being originated by the IESG.  

These comments prompted a number of side conversations, and Barry  

asked if the subject was discussed at the IESG plenary. Loa and  

Mark indicated that the IESG is indeed continuing a discussion on  

the use of DISCUSSes. Barry asked if it was appropriate for the  

IAB to approach the IESG on the matter in order to initiate a  

conversation. It was suggested that the current time might be  

less than ideal for raising this issue due to the pending appeal.  

There was also agreement that the IAB does not want to be seen as  

directing the actions of the IESG. No specific next steps on the  

matter were identified.


### 10. Conclude Call


