
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-07-16
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


Note: Meeting chaired By Danny McPherson in Olaf’s Absence


##### PRESENT


Stuart Cheshire  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Andy Malis


#### 1.3 Meeting Minutes


There are three sets of meeting minutes currently out for review:


2008-01-30  

2008-02-06  

2008-02-13


These minutes were planned for approval at the next business  

meeting. Dow also described a new process for editing draft  

minutes directly in the IAB wiki. No final minutes were approved  

during this call.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn summarized the NOMCOM chair appointment process that had just  

taken place. Of interest to the IAB was whether the challenges of  

the 07/08 NOMCOM had resulted in difficulty in finding a chair.  

Lynn felt that this was not a significant factor, and noted that  

there were about 13 total candidates who were considered. Some  

candidates eventually declined, with common reasons being their  

planned nomination for IESG / IAB slots, or limitations of day-job  

schedules. As is now public, Joel Halpern has been selected as the  

08/09 chair. Joel will have time during the Thursday plenary to  

comment about the upcoming NOMCOM.


(no ISOC Liaison written report submitted)


#### 2.2. RFC Editor Liaison


Sandy reported that the RFC Editor will have office hours in  

Dublin, and will take part in the tutorial sessions on Sunday.  

This time, Alice Hagens and Bill Fenner will present the xml2rfc  

tool, and there will a tutorial on document life-cycle. Gregory  

thought the xml2rfc tutorial was a good idea, as there is a lot of  

information about the tool, but it is not organized in a way that  

makes it easy for a newcomer to get started, especially if the  

author is unfamiliar with XML.


Danny noted that there was recent email about RFC erratum, and that  

it would still be useful to publish the draft as an independent  

document. An action was given to all board members to review the  

draft and send comments to Sandy.


(begin RFC Editor Liaison written report)



```
RFC Editor Report to the IAB

- The RFC Editor will be holding office hours during IETF 72.

Mon - Wed 9:30 - 4:30

- We will be participating in the following Tutorial sessions on
Sunday (27 July 2008).

Time: 1:00 - 2:45
Introduction to xml2rfc Tutorial

Time: 3:00 - 4:45
Document Lifecycle Tutorial

- We have produced the following reports at the IAD's request:

RFC Editor Report -- June 2008
MISSREF Statistics -- June 2008
Errata Report -- 11 July 2008

Available at http://www.rfc-editor.org/RFCeditor.html
```

(end RFC Editor Liaison written report)


#### 2.3. IESG Liaison


Mark introduced the items contained in his written report, and also  

noted a separate email about possible steps forward for NAT-PT.  

The mail was sent to the IAB and IESG as an attempt to coordinate  

a variety of work items in this area leading into the Dublin IETF.


(begin IESG Liaison written report)



```
Good Day, IAB.

Since the last IESG liaison report sent on June 18, 2008, the IESG
has had two formal telechats, one on June 19 and the other on July
3. In total, 54 internet drafts were brought to the two formal
telechats for review and action by the IESG. One new working group
was approved, IP Security Maintenance and Extensions (ipsecme).
Three working group were rechartered, "Host Identity Protocol
(hip)," "IPv6 over Low power WPAN (6lowpan)," and "Pseudowire
Emulation Edge to Edge (pwe3)." The IESG approved Nicholas Williams
(nicolas.williams@sun.com) as the official expert for RFC5056, and
Roy Arends (roy@nominet.org.uk), Frederico A C Neves
(fneves@registro.br), and Andrew Sullivan (ajs@commandprompt.com)
as experts for RFC2929bis. Two new Working Group chairs were
appointed to the L3VPN WG, Marshall Eubanks and Danny McPherson.
Matthew Bocci stepped in as Working Group chair for PWE3, replacing
Danny.

There has been a great deal of discussion in the IESG on what the
IETF can do about the upcoming IPv4 exhaustion (completion)
problem, including standardization of additional coexistence tools
such as NAT-PT. We expect to focus a lot of energy on this topic in
Dublin.

The following documents were approved by the IESG between June 5
and July 3.

o draft-ietf-ecrit-lost-10.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-netconf-notification-14.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-simple-partial-notify-10.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-simple-partial-pidf-format-10.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-simple-partial-publish-07.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-simple-xml-patch-ops-04.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-bfd-mpls-07.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-hokey-emsk-hierarchy-07.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-idr-bgp-prefix-orf-05.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-idr-route-filter-17.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-interarea-04.txt (Proposed Standard)
o draft-ietf-tsvwg-rsvp-user-error-spec-08.txt (Proposed Standard)

o draft-ietf-pwe3-ms-pw-requirements-07.txt (Informational)
o draft-ietf-v6ops-addr-select-ps-09.txt (Informational)
o draft-shimaoka-multidomain-pki-13.txt (Informational)
o draft-irtf-dtnrg-ltp-10.txt (Experimental)
o draft-irtf-dtnrg-ltp-extensions-08.txt (Experimental)
o draft-irtf-dtnrg-ltp-motivation-07.txt (Informational)
o draft-monrad-sipping-3gpp-urn-namespace-03.txt (Informational)
```

(end IESG Liaison written report)


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Aaron reported recent coordination with Russ on reconciling the  

draft IRTF RFCs, RFC 3932, and the Headers and Boilerplates  

document. Additional coordination is planned during the IETF  

meeting. Danny noted that it might also be worthwhile to publish  

the errata draft at the same time; Russ agreed, and he and Danny  

will talk to Cullen Jennings about that plan.


(begin IRTF Chair written report)



```
The IRTF chair is collaborating with the IAB and IETF chairs to
develop a coherent set of documents on handling, processing, and
marking non-IETF stream documents (with particular attention to the
IRTF stream). draft-irtf-rfcs will be updated accordingly.

Four IRTF Stream documents are in IRSG review:
draft-irtf-nmrg-snmp-measure
draft-irtf-routing-reqs
draft-irtf-routing-history
draft-irtf-iccrg-cc-rfcs

The following RGs have requested agenda slots at IETF-72 in Dublin:
ASRG, RRG, HIPRG, MobOpts.
```

(end IRTF Chair written report)


### 3. IETF 72 BOF Coverage


There was short a coordination discussion to ensure that all IETF  

72 BOFs will have IAB participation.


### 4. IAB Liaison Shepherds and Report


The board talked about liaison shepherding assignments and  

reporting frequency. Danny noted that prior familiarity with a  

liaison organization is not a pre-requesite for acting as that  

shepherd. Though such alignment can be helpful, it is important  

that the IAB as a whole maintain and/or develop such familiarity  

with external organizations as board members turn over. Danny will  

talk to Joel Halpern (NOMCOM chair) to ensure that IAB candidates  

are aware of the liaison shepherding component.


### 5. IETF 72 Technical Plenary


Plans are shaping up for the IETF 72 technical plenary. Gregory  

presented an update of the charter, goals and overview from the  

wiki and the board reviewed the list of potential and confirmed  

panel members. The goal is to have a variety of perspectives on the  

topic of IPv6 deployment challenges and successes.


### 6. Update on IANA Discussion


Danny reported that he is in the process of updating Geoff Huston’s  

IANA draft, which defines the role and function of IETF protocol  

parameter registry operators. Kurtis, Leslie, and others have  

provided feedback on the document, and Danny intends to have a new  

version available for IAB review in the next several weeks.


### 7. RFC Erratum Discussion


This topic was previously discussed during the RFC Editor report.  

It was further noted that the RFC Editor needs feedback on the the  

errata tool, and that such feedback is a responsibility of the IAB  

in its series oversight role. Russ directed the board to the IETF  

discussion list for additional background information. There has  

already been a long discussion on that list about Cullen’s draft,  

namely, the number of categories and what they should be called,  

but thus far no real consensus has emerged.


### 8. ICANN 2009 NomCom Member Selection


The IAB picks one person each year for the ICANN NOMCOM, but the  

process for making the selection is open to the board. Danny  

provided a little background for new IAB members, and suggested  

revisiting the topic after the Dublin meeting once Olaf is back.


### 9. IAB Liaison to IETF NomCom


There was a discussion about who would serve as the IAB liaison to  

the 08/09 NOMCOM. By definition, only those members in the first  

year of their terms are eligible. Dave Oran, Stuart, and Gregory  

expressed interest, but Gregory then withdrew his name after  

learning that Ross Callon would act as the IESG NOMCOM liaison  

(so as to avoid two individuals from the same company, i.e.,  

Juniper).


As the previous year’s liaison, Danny will provide additional  

information on what the role entails. The board will then confirm  

a single individual (likely Dave or Stuart) in the near future.


### 10. Conclude Call


