
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**27 August 2008**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Approval of Minutes, Administrivia](#1)
2. [Architecture Topic – Evolution of the IP Model](#2)
3. [IETF Technical Plenary Planning](#3)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire   

Russ Housely *(IETF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Gregory Lebovitz   

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Dow Street *(IAB Executive Director*  

Dave Thaler



**APOLOGIES**


Gonzalo Camarillo   

Lars Eggert *(IESG Liaison to the IAB)*  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Chair)*  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Lynn St. Amour *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang



### 2. Architecture Topic – Evolution of the IP Model


Dave Thaler led a discussion on the Evolution of the IP Model. There is a current internet draft on this topic which lays out assumptions about the nature of the service model provided by IP to layers above it in the stack. Dave had previously presented on this topic at IETF 72, and during this call the group walked through an updated version of that slide set. The primary IAB effort on this topic over the last few weeks has been the consideration of these historical assumptions, with the goal of determining:


(1) the extent to which each assumption actually holds in practice 


(2) if guidance can be provided to the community as to the importance of upholding/strengthening a particular assumption, or (alternatively) if the assumption should be relaxed. 


The IAB intends to publish a guidance document on this topic in the coming months, and is also considering the subject for the IETF 73 technical plenary.


### 3. IETF Technical Plenary Planning


The IAB briefly discussed a plan for deciding on technical topics for future IETF plenaries. Andy Malis volunteered to kick off a small planning committee to develop potential topics; Gregory, Loa, Lixia, and Barry agreed to assist in this effort. 




---


These minutes were prepared by Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/iabmins/)


