
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-05-21
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Dave Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Danny McPherson  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


#### 1.4. Review of Meeting Minutes


Dow noted that the 2008-01-09 meeting minutes are posted on the IAB  

wiki. A review deadline was set for 5/23, after which the minutes  

will be considered approved.


There was also a short discussion about the process for drafting  

catch-up minutes. It was decided that all meetings should have  

minutes, even though some (e.g., tech chats) are likely to include  

only a high-level summary of the discussion.


### 2. IETF 72 Agenda


The group spent some time on the IAB agenda for the upcoming IETF  

in Dublin. It was decided to keep the same Sunday schedule as  

IETF 71, but to move the IAB technical plenary to Wed evening. The  

Anti-Spam Research Group was selected as a candidate for the Thurs  

morning IAB-IRTF meeting. On Monday and Friday morning the IAB  

will have have their customary meetings with the IESG to discuss  

the “week ahead” and “week behind”.


It was decided to have a short presentation on the RFC Editor  

Model during the plenary slot. A main technical topic for the IAB  

plenary has not yet been confirmed.


### 3. Liaison Reports


#### 3.1. IESG Liaison Report


Russ Housley gave an update on the IESG (Mark Townsley was not  

able to participate in the call). Highlights:


– The NETMOD WG was chartered.  

– A call for comments is underway for two possible working  

groups: SAVI and DRINKS.  

– The RADIX and MEXT working groups are considering re-chartering.


Mark Townsley also submitted a written liaison report.


(begin IESG liaison written report)



```
Since the last IESG liaison report sent on April 16, the IESG has 
had two formal telechats, one on April 24 and the other on May 8, 
and three informal "discuss clearing" telechats on April 17, May 1,
and May 15. In total, 33 internet drafts were brought to the two 
formal telechats for review and action by the IESG.

One new Working Group, NETCONF Data Modeling Language (netmod) was
approved. Two new potential working groups, Source Address 
Validation Improvements (savi), and Data for Reachability of 
Inter/tra-NetworK SIP (drinks), are undergoing IETF review and are 
scheduled to return to the IESG for final review on May 22. Two 
working group charters are undergoing IETF review, RADIUS 
EXTensions (radext), and Mobility EXTensions for IPv6 (mext); Both 
are also scheduled for approval on the May 22 IESG telechat.

The 2008 IESG retreat will take place May 29 & 30th in New York 
City. The agenda is still being worked out, but the topics of 
discussion could include:

        -- How do ADs spend their time?
        -- Why is the number of DISCUSS positions growing?
        -- Improving chartering & charter tracking
        -- Ballot write-up
        -- NomCom Liaison Instructions
        -- IESG Input to Tools Management Committee
        -- Moving mail lists to ietf.org         
        -- Guidelines for Experimental to Proposed Standard
        -- Informational docs that "update" standards track docs
        -- Moving RFCs to Historic
        -- Too hard to climb the standards ladder
        -- Narrative Minutes: Meeting Community Needs?         	 
        -- RFC Errata
```

(end IESG Liaison written report)


#### 3.2. RFC Editor Liaison Report


Sandy reported that the RFC Editor has updated the errata process  

and are re-structuring the queue to better organize documents by  

stream. This functional improvement could impact anyone running  

scripts that use queue information, so for now both the old and new  

versions will be maintained.


Dave Thaler asked about plans to make the RFC Editor Site IPv6  

capable. Sandy said that ISI is currently working on this, but  

there is not a specific timeline for completion. Dave suggested it  

might be useful to be able to report a timeline before the next  

IETF, particularly if there is another IPv6 experiment.


(begin RFC Editor Liaison written report)



```
1. draft-rfc-editor-errata-process has been updated.  The ID 
tracker now has version -01. However, we expect to have version -02 
posted this week that will correct a couple of nits.

2. We are restructuring the queue.html page to be divided by stream.  
Please see http://www.rfc-editor.org/queue2.html.  Note that we 
intend to post a message to the rfc-interest list as a notice to 
those that have scripts running on the current queue.  We intend to 
maintain both of these queues while users update their scripts.
```

(end RFC Editor Liaison written report)


#### 3.3. ISOC Liaison Report


There was no ISOC report as Lynn was not available for this  

meeting.


#### 3.4. IRTF Chair Report


Aaron noted that several IRTF RG mailing lists had moved to the  

IETF domain when the new secretariat took over administration. He  

is working with the secretariat to correct the situation, but noted  

that some individual’s mail filters could be impacted accordingly.


There are several IRTF items that are waiting on 3932 progress, and  

four research groups are scheduled to meet at the upcoming IETF.


### 4. IETF Liaison to IEEE 802.1


Olaf received email from Bert Wijnen stating that he may not be  

able to continue as liaison to IEEE 802.1. Bert had suggested Eric  

Gray as a good candidate to take over the role. The IAB discussed  

the situation, noting that liaison selection in the past has been  

informal and internal to the IAB, but that a more open process  

might be better. There was consensus on the need to keep the  

process simple.


In order to fill the immediate 802.1 position, the IAB decided to  

solicit feedback from the chairs of several relevant WGs on the  

plan to appoint Eric Gray. The chairs will also be asked to  

suggest any other potential candidates. Working group chairs to  

be contacted are trill, ccamp, l2vpn, pwe3, and capwap. The board  

will also work on a standard process for selecting liaisons going  

forward.


### 5. Techchat Planning


Due to a schedule conflict with IESG P2P workshop, the IAB decided  

to cancel the regular techchat on 5/28. The time will be used  

instead for a smaller working meeting focused on one of the IAB  

architecture topics. Olaf will review which topic has the fewest  

members impacted by the P2P workshop. It was also decided that  

some time would be set aside during the 6/4 meeting to discuss the  

architecture topics.


### 6. Zone Transfers – .ARPA and Children


There was a question from IANA about whether there are any policy  

issues with opening up .ARPA and its sub-zones for zone transfer  

and NSEC signing. It was decided that there is no policy for  

keeping the data private (i.e., not making the zones available), but  

there may still be reasons for preventing transfers (e.g., DOS).


Olaf took an action to draft a response to IANA and send it to the  

IAB for review.


### 7. Protocol Success Document


Dave Thaler reported that the Protocol Success document has been  

updated and should now be ready for publication as an RFC. The  

new draft includes all the comments received thus far. The IAB  

will have 24 hours for completing one final review prior to  

submission. Olaf will also inform previous members of the IAB  

since the document was initially drafted during their tenure.


### 8. Conclude Call


