
1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia
-------------------------------------------------------------


### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Stuart Cheshire  

Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

David Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES:


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Andy Malis  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The IETF 74 technical plenary was added as an agenda item.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed. There was a short discussion about  

cleaning up and posting the notes from the IETF technical plenary to  

the proceedings. Dow and Olaf took the action.


### 2. ECMA Liaison


(deferred due to Andy’s schedule conflict)


### 3. ITU liaisons: ID/LOC and T-MPLS


The IAB has been responding to recent developments within the ITU-T  

SG15, where a small contingent has been attempting to start MPLS-TP  

related work that would violate the current agreement between the  

ITU-T and IETF. Part of the challenge is rooted in the different  

procedures used in the ITU-T vs. IETF when building consensus and  

making decisions to approve documents. Loa reported that the liaison  

correspondence has been sent, and the IAB is now awaiting a response.  

It was noted that there are individuals within the ITU-T who have  

been quite helpful in resolving the situation.


Olaf also observed how this situation has required quick coordination  

among IAB members, and that the IAB is not particularly accustomed  

to operating in a fast-response mode. The group set up a phone list  

to allow for quicker coordination when necessary, but will attempt to  

keep such situations to a minimum (i.e. not set a precedent that the  

IAB operates in this mode in the general case).


### 4. SIDR Discussion / IAB Transparency


Geoff Huston recently sent correspondence to the IAB regarding an  

email from Danny McPherson. The technical topic of interest was  

securing inter-domain routing, but Geoff’s email principally  

concerned IAB methods of collecting information from outside parties,  

and the related issue of IAB transparency. The situation had been  

discussed on the IAB mailing list, and Olaf had drafted a response to  

Geoff. The board reviewed this response during the meeting.


Note: The response was sent shortly after the meeting, and is now  

posted to the IAB website:


http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2008-12-04-huston-TAs-  

IANA-RIRs.html


### 5. NAT66


The group entered a lengthy discussion of NAT66, guided by a summary  

of the issues that Dave Thaler had previously emailed. Dave noted  

that NAT66 is a topic of active discussion on several different IETF  

mailing lists, and that there have been multiple requests for IAB  

guidance in this area. The NAT66 discussion is partly related to the  

previous request to the IAB for guidance on UNSAF / RFC 3424.


The board reviewed potential and perceived benefits of NAT in the  

context of IPv6. RFC 4864 enumerates the benefits of NAT in v4, and  

what one can do in v6 to get those same benefits without introducing  

NATs. However, there are a number of individuals in the IETF / IESG  

who have argued that the alternatives are unwieldy or commercially  

unattractive compared to IPv6 NATs. Of particular focus during the  

IAB meeting were the use of NATs to avoid renumbering, N:1 vs 1:1  

NATs, and the relation of IPv6 NATs to map-and-encap and other RRG  

proposals. There was consensus that the IAB should take an active  

role in the NAT66 debate, likely through the publication of an IAB  

document on the topic. It is also possible that the IAB UNSAF  

guidance will need to be updated depending on the direction NAT66  

takes.


There was a general agreement that there are enough pro-NAT  

commercial interests that guidance simply stating “don’t use NATs for  

IPv6” is unlikely to prevent their deployment. To a degree, the job  

of the IAB is likely to be helping to limit the damage that NATs pose  

to the overall architecture.


### 6. IAOC Candidate Selection Update


Olaf gave an update on the IAB’s selection of an IAOC candidate.  

(Gonzalo had been coordinating the call for candidates, but had a  

schedule conflict this call). Three candidates have been identified,  

and each has received a questionnaire that the IAB will use in making  

a selection. NOMCOM will also select an IAOC member, and it was  

noted that there is a possibility the IAB and NOMCOM could select the  

same individual. Since the selection processes of the two groups  

are wholly independent, the IAB decided to simply deal with such  

a situation if and when it were to occur, likely by identifying a  

first and second IAB choice. Internal IAB discussion has indicated  

that all three individuals are seen as strong candidates.


### 7. Action Items [5 min]


(deferred due to time constraints)


### 8. Document Status [5 min]


(deferred due to time constraints)


AOB:


### 9. San Francisco Plenary


Andy and Loa have drafted a fairly complete proposal for the plenary  

topic, “MPLS after 12 years”, which would trace the IETF experience  

with MPLS development and deployment. The plan is to do a panel  

discussion with individuals who have been involved from the start,  

and try to draw out multiple perspectives. The IAB discussed a few  

different directions the topic could take, and ideas to ensure that  

the talk is relevant to a wide IETF audience. A “Case Study” format  

was considered that would allow for discussion of other aspects of  

the topic that are more general than just MPLS, such as technology  

development, deployment, and coordination with other organizations.  

It was also agreed that the plenary should not include significant  

coverage of “IETF interaction with other standards organizations”  

without involving those parties in the talk, perhaps as panel  

members. The group decided that this area of the topic could  

warrant a plenary talk of its own, and will consider it for a  

future IETF.


### EXECUTIVE SESSION


At this time the IAB entered an Executive Session. Liaisons dropped  

from the call.


### 10. NOMCOM Update


Dave Oran gave a very brief update on NOMCOM status.


### 11. JFC Morfin Appeal


Russ Housley recused.


Olaf introduced the JFC Appeal, and Barry volunteered to lead the work  

on the IAB’s response. All members were asked to review the appeal  

materials for the next meeting.


