
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-05-07
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire  

Russ Housely (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis


#### 1.3. Administrivia


– A wiki page has been set up for tracking the summer vacation  

schedules of IAB members.


– The group discussed IAB participation in the IETF Workshop on P2P  

Infrastructure (to be held on May 28, 2008). At present, Russ,  

Danny, Dave Oran, Loa, and Gregory plan to attend.


#### 1.4. Review of Meeting Minutes


The IAB is trying a new process for reviewing and approving meeting  

minutes. Four sets of meeting minutes have been posted to the wiki:


2007-11-07  

2007-11-21  

2007-12-19  

2008-02-20


IAB members will make any needed edits directly in the wiki, unless  

the change significantly changes the intent or content of the text.  

In these cases, the change will be coordinated over email (as  

before).


A review deadline of Friday 9 May was set for the minutes listed  

above, at which point they will be considered approved. Olaf also  

requested that those incumbent IAB members assisting with backlog  

minutes finish their drafts by Wednesday 14 May.


### 2. IAB Liaison Manager Discussion


Dave Oran walked through several slides he had prepared on the  

topic of IETF liaisons and the IAB’s role in liaison shepherding.  

It was agreed that some regularization of IAB-liaison coordination  

would be helpful, and that each liaison should have a designated  

IAB shepherd.


Dave has already been acting as a shepherd for several liaisons,  

and he described his usual methods of coordination (e.g. quick  

check-in once a month via email, summary report before each IETF).  

Olaf noted that the IAB often receives correspondence where it is  

not immediately clear how the issue would be best addressed, and  

that having shepherds in place would assist in working and tracking  

issues across multiple areas. There was also general agreement  

that it would be worthwhile to keep some informal (internal)  

state about existing contacts within other outside organizations  

for which no formal IETF liaison has been established.


Dave Oran and Danny will draft a rough plan for liaison  

shepherding, and IAB members were asked to begin volunteering as  

shepherds.


### 3. Architecture Topics – Way Forward


The group conducted a quick status check on each of the five  

architecture work items identified at the retreat:


– IP Model Evolution  

– Securing Inter-domain Routing  

– IPv6 and Firewalls  

– User Control of Traffic  

– Peer-to-peer Architectures


There has been some initial coordination on the topics, but the  

real work on these has yet to get going. The 28 May techchat was  

set as the target date for topic leads to develop a charter / work  

plan, which would include initial milestones, method(s) for working  

the problem, expected outputs, etc.


### 4. Infrastructure ENUM Feedback


Olaf has been working with Richard Shockey, Patrik Faltstrom and  

others on a pending issue related to the use of Infrastructure  

ENUM. There is an existing agreement between the IAB and ITU-T  

(documented in RFC 3761) for populating e164.arpa with E.164  

numbers, thereby enabling DNS resolution. However, the ENUM WG has  

drafted a series of documents which reuse ENUM technology, but have  

the potential for establishing a different anchor in DNS. The IAB  

is concerned about the referential integrity of look-up mechanisms  

in cases where multiple anchors could be in use, and will confer  

with the ITU-T prior to suggesting guidance to the ENUM WG.


Olaf drafted an email response to the ITU-T and distributed it to  

the board for consideration. A similar message will be submitted  

in response to the the upcoming last call on  

draft-ietf-enum-infrastructure.


### 5. RFC Editor Model


After discussion at the IAB retreat, Russ revised the descriptive  

text of the proposed RFC Editor Model (re)Structure. This new  

draft was sent to IAB members for review, and the group decided  

during the call that the new draft is ready for the sub-committee.  

The primary change in this draft was separation of the RFC Editor  

function and supervision of the Independent Stream. The  

sub-committee will finalize the text and update artwork prior to  

distribution for public comment.


### 6. Action Items


#### 6.1. OMA Liaison


Barry indicated that this item can be closed based on recent a  

conversation with Dean Willis.


#### 6.2. Unwanted Traffic


The group determined that there were no immediate steps on this  

for the IAB, and that the item should be revisited in 6 mos.


#### 6.3. Anycast


(no update)


#### 6.5. ENUM


Olaf will update the status of this item in the IAB wiki based on  

the previous discussion (agenda item 4 above).


#### 6.6. ICANN NomCom


This item will be re-visited during the upcoming ICANN NomCom  

process.


### 7. Document Status


#### 7.1. What Makes for a Successful Protocol


Dave Thaler indicated that the call for comments on this document  

has been completed. He received comments from six people, and had  

met Bernard to discuss the document. Dave expected to complete a  

new draft by the end of the day, and to submit the document to the  

ID repository on later in the week.


#### 7.2. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


There was a short discussion about a 3GPP specification that  

violates the guidance given in this document by using a layer 2  

protocol (3GPP) to configure layer 3 information (DNS). Dave  

Thaler suggested that this example might be added to the draft.


After this change, the document will begin a last call within the  

IAB.


#### 7.3. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Olaf reported that he had received a few additional comments at the  

last IETF meeting. He asked the IAB to review the new draft so as  

to ensure that all comments had been adequately addressed. There  

was a discussion about current DNS server implementation support  

for new record types, and whether servers can act as a secondary  

for another zone. This led the group to consider a change in the  

focus of the document – rather than only describing the current  

state, the document will now also provide guidance to application  

develops and corporations. Dave Thaler agreed to draft some new  

text to this end.


#### 7.4. DNS Synthesis Concerns


Danny provided feedback on this document to Olaf, who will  

incorporate the comments into a new draft.


#### 7.5. A Survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Gregory recently took over this document from Eric Rescorla and is  

currently coordinating with other contributors.


#### 7.6. IPv6 Migration: The Way Forward – Strategy and Tools


It was decided that this item is essentially covered by other  

ongoing work. The document will be closed.


#### 7.7. Design Extensions for Protocol Extensions


Stuart indicated that he would be willing to co-author this  

document with Brian Carpenter. It was also noted that this draft  

complements the “Protocol Success” document and may itself be  

appropriate as an IAB draft at some point in the future. Stuart  

will coordinate with Brian Carpenter on the matter.


### 8. AOB


There was a brief discussion of assigning an ISSN to the RFC  

series. The board had no objections to such a step, but largely  

considered the decision a matter for the IAOC.


