
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-08-20
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Stuart Cheshire  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Andy Malis  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES:


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Danny McPherson  

David Oran


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


No final meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Olaf drew attention to an upcoming ITU IPv6 meeting in Geneva:


http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/worksem/ipv6/200809/index.html


The meeting was purposefully scheduled to align with a meeting of  

developing countries also taking place in Geneva. Russ was invited  

to speak at the meeting, but declined the offer due to its focus on  

address allocation, and the corresponding likelihood that the  

discussion will be of a predominantly political nature. At least  

one RIR also declined for similar reasons. Phil Roberts is  

planning to attend for ISOC. There is a call with Phil tomorrow to  

coordinate on the matter.


Due to a schedule conflict, Lynn did not join the meeting until  

later in the call (and did not have anything further to report).


(no ISOC Liaison written report was submitted)


#### 2.2. RFC Editor Liaison


Sandy introduced the material in her written report; there were no  

questions from the board.


(begin RFC Editor Liaison written report)



```
RFC Editor Report to the IAB

1. We have hired a new editor: Stacy Burns.
She started as a full-time employee 4 August 2008.

2. At IETF 72, we participated in 2 tutorials on Sunday.

- "Document Lifecycle" with Margaret Wasserman. There were about 70 
attendees.  The slides are posted here: 
http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-editor/lifecycle.pdf

- "Intro to xml2rfc" with Bill Fenner. There were about 15 
attendees.  The slides are posted here: 
http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-editor/intro_xml2rfc.pdf

3. We have added a new feature to "RFC Editor - Current Queue 
Summary", which gets sent to you weekly.  The last section of this 
report "####   Cluster Definitions   ####" is new.  It identifies 
clusters of documents (only those that can be identified by 
normative references) with a unique identifier number, and shows 
the current status of the individual drafts.  Note that NR means 
"not received", which means that the I-D is not currently in the 
RFC Editor queue for processing.
```

(end RFC Editor Liaison written report)


#### 2.3. IESG Liaison


Lars was not on the IAB call due to a schedule conflict (SIGCOMM).  

Gregory asked about the Todd Glassey issue, and Olaf noted that  

there had not yet been an appeal filed with the IAB, leading the  

group to cut off further discussion. Russ stated simply that the  

IESG is currently working on its appeal response, which should be  

approved within the next week.


(begin IESG Liaison written report)



```
IESG Liaison Report to the IAB

1. The IESG had only one formal telechat since Dublin. Due to the 
vacation time, many folks were absent and there was no quorum, 
which means that document actions and management items will need to 
be approved on the mailing list.

2. The IESG has been discussing its response to the appeal from 
Todd Glassey (see http://www.ietf.org/IESG/APPEALS/glassey-appeal-
2008-07-28.txt) on his suspension from posting to the IPR Working 
Group (WG) mailing list.

3. We've been preparing an IESG statement on interim IETF Working 
Group meetings, conference calls, and jabber sessions that should 
be announced shortly.

4. The v4-v6 coexistence interim dates has now firmed up to October 
1-3, though it will probably still shrink to October 1-2. The 
location is Montreal, CA. All this is subject to confirmation once 
we get the host to say yes, secretary to find hotels, etc.
```

(end IESG Liaison written report)


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Aaron was not on the IAB call due to a schedule conflict (SIGCOMM).


(no IRTF Chair written report was submitted)


### 3. Architecture Topics Status


At this point in the meeting the IAB conducted a status update on  

the five architecture topics.


#### 3.1. User Control of Traffic


Dave Oran is the primary point of contact for this item, but was  

not on the call due to a schedule conflict. Gregory asked whether  

the combined scope of the TANA and ALTO efforts, as discussed at  

the recent IETF, essentially cover this architecture topic. There  

was consensus that this was the right question to ask, though the  

group did not yet have a clear answer to the question. It was  

agreed that the question should be presented to the INT area (and  

possibly other lists), but that additional context and background  

would be needed when the question was posed. Gregory will raise  

the question for further maturation on the internal IAB list, and  

Olaf will ping Dave Oran on the topic.


Gregory also suggested drafting a document that talks about the  

different pieces of the architecture, and how the TANA and ALTO  

work fit in. Olaf thought the idea had merit, but encouraged  

Gregory to take the idea to Dave Oran as the lead for this topic  

(in an effort to distribute ownership of specific IAB work items).


#### 3.2. IPv6 and Firewalls


There was a previous action for all board members to provide input  

on this topic, and Stuart reported that he had so far received  

comments from Gregory and Dow. Stuart plans to assemble the  

material into a draft in the coming week, and the board was  

encouraged to pass along additional examples of IPv6 erosion.


The discussion then turned briefly to the email internationalization  

tests, which was subsequently added to the agenda of the 3 September  

meeting.


#### 3.3. Securing Inter-domain Routing


Danny is the primary point of contact for this item, but was not on  

the call due to a schedule conflict. Lixia and Gregory have been  

coordinating with Danny on the topic, and Gregory noted that the  

work had been broken into two primary pieces: securing the routing  

protocol information itself, and securing the transport of update  

messages. He has been working with Eric Rescorla on the latter  

part, and the plan is to write a draft to help break the stalemate  

between the routing and security ADs.


Danny was left with the existing action to talk with Lixia, Kurtis,  

and Gregory to determine an IAB plan of action on the first part  

of the problem. Work on securing BGP has been progressing in the  

SIDR WG and other forums, but a clear set of next-steps in this  

area for the IAB has not yet been identified.


#### 3.4. Peer-to-Peer Architectures


Gonzalo had previously distributed the P2P Architectures draft, and  

board members were requested to read it and provide comments.  

Gonzalo also missed the call due to a schedule conflict, so no  

further status was reported.


#### 3.5. Evolution of the IP Model


The group has been providing comments on the IP Model to Dave  

Thaler, and Olaf reminded everyone of the 27 August techchat on  

this topic. In order to prepare for that meeting, Olaf suggested  

that this topic be considered the highest priority technical item  

for the coming week. Dave added that there is guidance that the  

IAB needs to come up with, such as the RFC 1958 example of using  

names rather than direct address references. Dave will be giving a  

talk on this topic at the SIGCOMM mobility workshop (Friday, 8/22).  

That session should provide an opportunity for additional feedback  

on the work from outside the IAB proper.


### 4. RFC Editor Model


Olaf reported that he had received more feedback on the RFC Editor  

model after the IETF meeting. He also specifically contacted  

Scott Bradner and John Klensin and both provided input (though not  

all of it was on the public list), and Olaf is in the process of  

sorting through all the comments and revising the description. So  

far it has been hard to pull clear consensus from the various  

public and private discussions.


One aspect of the model that has received a fair amount of  

attention is the relationship between the RFC Editor function and  

the Production House. It seems that a tight coupling between these  

functions is important, and could warrant strong guidance for the  

IAOC to consider this interface when implementing the model.


Russ asked if we were on schedule in defining the model. Olaf felt  

the basic model definition was on track, but that the glue between  

the functions needed more discussion. He will collect the latest  

comments and attempt to drive consensus on a description over the  

coming week.


### 5. IPv6 Plenary Call to Action


At the last business call it was decided to draft an ‘IPv6 Call to  

Action’ email as a follow-up to the technical plenary, to encourage  

further deployment of IPv6. Based on this plan, Gregory had  

written a draft email, and the board spent some time discussing the  

style and content of the message. One of the message themes is  

“individual actions make a difference”, but there was also some  

concern raised about sounding too evangelistic.


Lixia noted a passage in the draft that referenced IPv6 software  

maturity, and added that the perceived maturity level varies  

considerably depending on who you talk to. In particular, IPv6  

implementations are surely not as mature as IPv4 software, which  

has been refined over 20-30 years, but as Stuart commented, it is  

more mature than much of the software shipping in our industry. It  

was decided to emphasize the stability of IPv6 implementations in  

leading operating systems and network devices.


Lynn noted that ISOC can complement the IAB work by building on the  

message, tracking deployment successes, etc. After further  

discussion there was agreement to draft a more concise message;  

final text will be refined on the IAB mailing list. The message  

will also remind the community of the ipv6-adoption mailing list,  

which is run by the IAB for collecting v6 deployment experiences.


### 6. Headers and Boilerplates


Olaf reported that there are a lot of questions on the document  

that he is still trying to address. He needs to talk to Leslie,  

and there may be a few items that need answers from the community.  

This document goes hand-in-hand with the IRTF Stream document and  

3932bis. Russ sent an updated 3932bis draft yesterday that  

incorporates all the comments inputs received to date. Olaf will  

have a new version of the H&B draft done shortly.


### 7. SSAC


ICANN reviews its organization on a regular basis, and solicits  

input other groups within the Internet community. Olaf has been  

coordinating with Steve Crocker on a request for review of the  

ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee (SSAC). Danny is  

a regular member of the SSAC, and Olaf has been a member before.


Per Olaf’s suggestion, the board decided to make Danny the SSAC  

point of contact. Since he was not on the call, Olaf will ask  

Danny about taking over this role. There was no other immediate  

action with respect to the SSAC for the IAB as a whole.


### 8. Action Items Status


#### 8.1 Anycast


(no update)


#### 8.2 Infrastructure ENUM


The plan is to pick this up again in the September or October  

timeframe, as the next SG2 meeting is not until March of next year.


#### 8.3 ICANN NomCom


The IAB had previously decided to use an ad-hoc approach to  

selecting the ICANN NomCom participant. As such, Olaf will mark  

this action item as completed.


### 9. Document Status


#### 9.1 What Makes for a Successful Protocol


This document is now an RFC. Dave Thaler will update the status on  

the IAB’s document tracking page.


#### 9.2. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


Dave has received some comments on the latest draft, including a  

review by Alfred Hoenes. The document is in IAB last call, and is  

almost ready for a wider review. Dave will wait for a few more  

days, and once he receives comments from Stuart he will send it to  

the RFC Editor for community comments.


#### 9.3. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Olaf stated that this document needs another spin. He distributed  

version 07 after the IETF meeting, and has some open nits to fix.  

He also received comments today from Alfred.


#### 9.4. DNS Synthesis Concerns


No change in status; this document remains in Olaf’s queue, but is  

a lower priority.


#### 9.5. Survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Gregory reported that the status of this document had not changed,  

but it is still on his task list. Lixia and Dave Thaler agreed  

that the document was important, although not particularly urgent.


#### 9.6. Evolution of the IP Model


This draft will be reviewed at the techchat next week.


#### 9.7. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Stuart holds the pen on this document, but has not yet revised the  

draft. He will update the status on the IAB tracking list.


### 10. Short Action Items Review


This was a quick administrative run-through of the short action  

items list.


### 11. Conclude Call


