
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


**3 September 2008**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Administrivia


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash, Administrivia](#1)
2. [Architectural Topics Status](#2)
3. [IETF 73 Plenary Organization and Schedule](#3)
4. [Technical Plenary Topics – Planning](#4)
5. [SSAC Status](#5)
6. [Email / Protocol Internationalization](#6)
7. [IRTF Stream Document (draft-irtf-rfcs-XX.txt)](#7)
8. [Response Email to DNS Names and Blacklist Issue](#8)
9. [Mail from Mark Nottingham W3C](#9)
10. [Action Item Status](#10)
11. [Document Status](#11)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo   

Stuart Cheshire   

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Chair)*  

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  

Barry Leiba  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Lynn St. Amour  

Dow Street *(IAB Executive Director*  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang



**APOLOGIES**


Lars Eggert *(IESG liaison)*  

Sandy Ginoza *(RFC Editor Liaison)*  

Russ Housely *(IETF Chair)*  

Gregory Lebovitz   

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Dave Oran


#### 1.3 Meeting Minutes


Olaf and Dow briefly noted the new schedule for reducing the meeting minutes backlog. Three new sets of minutes have been posted for review by IAB members.


### 2. Architectural Topics Status


#### 2.1 User Control of Traffic


(no update)


#### 2.2 IPv6 / Firewalls


Stuart reported that additional work was necessary to synthesize the multiple sub-topics in this area into a single IAB work item with one dominant focus. A follow-up phone meeting was scheduled to accomplish this goal.


#### 2.3 Securing Inter-domain Routing


Danny reported that although IAB-specific work in this area has been limited in recent weeks, there has been ongoing activity in other forums with IAB member participation. (SIDR WG, operator forums, etc.) Gregory has also been working with the routing area ADs on a document that addresses the transport protection aspects of routing security.


It was decided that an IAB workshop on securing inter-domain routing would be premature at this point, but may make sense after the ongoing SIDR and repository development activities have additional time. The IAB intends to revisit this problem in several months.


#### 2.4 P2P Architectures


Gonzalo reported that he has gotten good feedback on the current draft from peer-to-peer experts outside the IAB, and will be revising the draft to incorporate those comments. The IAB will then conduct a final internal review before submitting the document for a call for comments from the larger community.


#### 2.5 Evolution of the IP Model


The IAB techchat on 27 September recently focused on this topic, and Dave Thaler is in the process of updating the current draft based on that discussion. It was also decided during that meeting that the Evolution of the IP Model would be the probable topic for the IETF 73 Technical Plenary.



### 3. IETF 73 Plenary Organization and Schedule


There was a brief discussion of the revised schedule for the IAB and IESG plenary sessions at IETF 73. The current plan is to hold both sessions sequentially on the same evening (with a break in between). This schedule will allow for additional WG meeting time during the IETF week. The importance of plenary open mic time was noted, and the slot for the plenary technical topic will remain at 90 minutes. The IETF chair is working with the secretariat to finalize the overall meeting schedule. 


The IAB also decided that they would not have an additional IAB working meeting on the Saturday before the meeting, but may consider future Saturday meetings based on IAB internal work load. Initial plans were also discussed for the IAB to meet with the ISOC Board of Trustees during the week of IETF 73.



### 4. Technical Plenary Topics – Planning


There was a short discussion of establishing a new IAB process for selecting and planning technical plenary topics. Andy agreed to lead a small sub-committee to take on this task.


### 5. SSAC Status


The ICANN bylaws require a periodic review of ICANN structure and operation by outside organizations. The IAB recently received a request to review the Security and Stability Advisory Committee. The Draft Terms of Reference were posted here:


http://www.icann.org/en/public-comment/#ssac-review-tor


Direct IAB experience with the SSAC has been limited but positive, and the group decided that they (the IAB) had no concrete suggestions or questions for the SSAC. The IAB does have good informal communication with the SSAC, and will continue to coordinate with them as necessary going forward. 


Olaf will draft an email response to Dennis Jennings, the chair of the ICANN Board SSAC Review Working Group. 


### 6. Email / Protocol Internationalization


The IAB continued its discussion of issues facing email and protocol internationalization. A new (internal) wiki page has been set up for organizing information on the topic, including the results of a series of email tests the IAB is currently conducting. 


Olaf, Stuart, and Dave Thaler have been leading this IAB effort, and plan to ask John Klensin some questions on the problems that arise from mixed UTF-8/punycode conversion and encoding, and the interaction of resolver APIs/processes, DNS, and mail handling applications. 


### 7. IRTF Stream Document (draft-irtf-rfcs-XX.txt)


Aaron has updated the IRTF Stream document (draft-irtf-rfcs-02.txt) and asked for guidance on the language that references the IAB role in the IRTF stream. (see RFC 4844).


The plan is for the IRTF Stream document to progress along with draft-housley-iesg-rfc3932bis and draft-iab-streams-headers-boilerplates. The IAB will conduct a final review of the document before it is submitted to the RFC Editor for publication. 


### 8. Response Email to DNS Names and Blacklist Issue


The IAB (and IESG) recently received email from Claudio Allocchio (GARR) bringing attention to a current situation where blacklists are being applied based on the assumed meaning of DNS labels. In this instance, the service provider was blocking traffic from hosts with “dyn” in the domain name, presuming that this signified dynamically assigned addresses (which was, in fact, not the case).


Kurtis drafted an email response on behalf of the IAB that takes no direct position on the usefulness of blacklists, but reiterates that it is inappropriate to draw conclusions about the nature of an endpoint based solely on a DNS label. The response references RFC 4367, as well as two drafts of the ANTI-SPAM RG.


### 9. Mail from Mark Nottingham W3C


There was a short discussion of recent email from Mark Nottingham, which brought to the IAB’s attention current W3C work on in-network content transformation. 


http://www.w3.org/TR/ct-guidelines/


The IAB had previously considered the possible negative effects of this type of in-network processing in 2001/2002, when it reviewed similar work of the Open Pluggable Edge Services (OPES) WG. The guidance was at that time was documented in RFC 3238. Barry will draft a response on behalf of the IAB, suggesting that RFC 3238 be reviewed and referenced as part of the W3C effort. 


### 10. Action Item Status


#### 10.1. Anycast


Danny indicated that he had just sent an email to Dave Oran requesting feedback on this item, and that he would send out the document to the IAB within the next two weeks. 


#### 10.2. Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM Document


Olaf reported that this item is still on hold and will be revisited next month.


### 11. Document Status


#### 11.1. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


Dave Thaler is currently updating the 06 draft, which includes comments from Stuart, but does not yet include comments from Alfred Hoenes. Dave will send a call for comments to the IETF list once version 07 is available. 


#### 11.2. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


(no update)


#### 11.3. DNS Synthesis Concerns


(no update)


#### 11.4. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


(no update)


#### 11.5. Evolution of the IP Model


(no update)


#### 11.6. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


(no update)







---


These minutes were prepared by Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/iabmins/)


