
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-11-05
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Stuart Cheshire  

Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Andy Malis  

David Oran  

Danny McPherson  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The Executive Director recently received a suggestion to remove the  

‘nospam’ html device embedded in IAB member email addresses on the  

IAB public web page. At issue was the way some browsers include  

this device when a cut-and-paste operation is conducted on the  

address, even though it is not visible on the screen. The concern  

was raised that this situation could result in email intended for  

an IAB member being inadvertently sent to an incorrect address,  

without the sender or IAB member being aware. The board decided to  

alter the web pages so as to use the common ‘AT’ convention  

instead, an approach that is familiar to many internet users and  

alleviates the concern of incorrect delivery.


The board then reviewed the IAB meeting calendar for Nov 08 – Jan  

09.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The IAB approved final minutes for the following meetings:


2008-05-21 Minutes  

2008-05-28 Minutes  

2008-09-17 Minutes  

2008-09-24 Minutes


Olaf noted that the 17 Sep minutes included an item on ITU-T SG-17  

work, and asked if there was an update. Barry stated that he and  

Kurtis need to talk to Scott Bradner about the topic.


### 2. IETF 73 Planning


#### 2.1. IAB Schedule at IETF 73


The IAB agreed on two topics for the Sunday lunch with the IESG:  

v4-v6 transition and SIPSO. In the IAB-only meeting that follows,  

the board will review the P2P document Gonzalo has been working,  

discuss recent IANA developments, and hold a working session on  

Assumptions of the IP Model. For the last item Dave Thaler will  

lead the discussion using slides he presented at the recent Mobiarch  

workshop at SIGCOMM.


Aaron noted that the P2P RG is planned for the usual IAB RG review  

on Thursday morning at IETF. The P2P RG has new chairs, and Aaron  

is working with them on the charter. The selection of the P2P RG  

will work well given the IAB’s P2P discussion on Sunday.


#### 2.2. Technical Plenary


There was a short discussion on the talk for the technical plenary.  

Dave Thaler will give the initial presentation, which will be  

followed by a panel Q&A with the whole IAB. All board members will  

review the latest draft, and will finalize plans at the Tuesday  

morning meeting of IETF.


#### 2.3. Liaison Coordination


The group discussed liaison shepherding and plans for liaison  

coordination leading up to the IETF meeting. Most liaisons now  

have IAB shepherds assigned, and all should have shepherds by the  

meeting.


#### 2.4. BOF Coverage


There was a short discussion to ensure that all IETF 73 BOFs will  

have IAB participation.


### 3. RFC Editor Model


Olaf recently posted a second version of the RFC editor model  

draft, which clarifies a few areas where there had been issues  

raised. The plan is to initiate a 3-4 week last call, after which  

the document will be submitted for publication as an RFC. The IAOC  

has contacted a number of people to establish an ad-hoc advisory  

committee as mentioned in appendix A.1 of the RFC editor model  

(draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-02.txt) to assist the IAOC in preparing  

and evaluating RFI and a consequent RFP. The IAB decided to ask  

these people to serve them during the selection of the Independent  

Series Editor, and possibly the RFC Series Editor.


### 4. UN Enhanced Cooperation


Dow sent a first draft of the UN response this morning and  

requested comments from the IAB. The draft basically follows the  

outline agreed to at the last meeting. Dow and Olaf have also been  

coordinating with Bill Graham (ISOC) on the response, and Bill  

suggested that it would be especially helpful to have the letter  

to the UN before the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) in mid-  

November. As such, Dow will revise the draft and distribute a  

final copy for IAB approval during the 18 November meeting.


### 5. NTIA Feedback


The NTIA recently requested feedback on a plan to deploy DNSSEC:


http://frwebgate5.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/waisgate.cgi?WAIS  

docID=559077321003+0+0+0&WAISaction=retrieve


The IAB has been working on a response, and Olaf updated the group  

on the latest text. The IAB agreed that it would also be worth-  

while to send out a slightly more polished version to a few people  

in the field prior to submitting to NTIA. A plan was made to  

finalize and approve the text at the 18 November meeting. Olaf  

noted that the DNS working group at RIPE also had some hallway  

discussion on the NTIA solicitation.


### 6. IAOC Selection and COI


The board discussed a variety of scenarios that could present a  

real or perceived Conflict of Interest (COI) in appointment  

processes. The initial question involved whether it would be  

inappropriate for someone on an IAOC appointing committee to  

support the appointment of another individual from the same  

company. The discussion then went on to include a variety of  

potential COI cases that could arise in IAOC, NOMCOM, WG chair  

selection, etc. The group decided that at present there is no  

problem (since the question was a hypothetical), and that the issue  

would be addressed if and when it arises. It was also noted that  

COI in IESG selection would likely have greater impact than in IAOC  

selection, and that NOMCOM is supposed to consider such factors.


### 7. Ongoing participation in the OECD: Technical Community 
Committee


Olaf reported that during the OECD meeting in Korea, the IEC  

secretary raised the idea of establishing a group from the  

technical community to provide technical guidance and input. It  

was suggested that the IAB support this model and be part of the  

committee (in the context of supporting ISOC with technical  

advice). The IAB agreed that this was a good idea.


### 8. Action Items


#### 8.1 Anycast


Danny distributed an update on the anycast draft and received  

feedback from about 20% of the IAB. He is incorporating the  

comments into a new version, and in alignment with Kurtis’  

suggestion will shift the theme toward a more architectural focus.  

All board members were requested to review the latest draft and  

provide feedback to Danny.


#### 8.2 Infrastructure ENUM


The status of this item has not significantly changed, but the  

topic is on the IESG agenda this week. There could be an RFC  

shortly, at which point the IAB would need to take its next action.  

Olaf and Russ will coordinate on the inclusion (or not) of IAB  

considerations in the ENUM document.


### 9. Document Status


#### 9.1 Principles of Internet Host Configuration


The last call went out on this document. Dave Thaler has received  

three responses so far, and will work with Bernard to update the  

draft.


#### 9.2. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


Dave Thaler previously send an email about the universal  

availability of unknown resource record types. No one has yet  

responded to that mail, so Olaf took an action to reply and restart  

the discussion.


#### 9.3. DNS Synthesis Concerns


(no update)


#### 9.4. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Gregory noted that he needs to finish his review and coordinate  

Bernard. He should have some time to work on this after IETF.


#### 9.5. Evolution of the IP Model


This item was discussed earlier in the meeting as part of the IETF  

planning.


The IAB also agreed to add two new documents to their internal  

tracker:


– Peer-to-peer (P2P) Architectures  

– Defining the Role and Function of IETF Protocol Parameter  

Registry Operators


### 10. AOB


#### 10.1 UNSAF


On October 6th Magnus sent a question from some of the IESG asking  

how the current IAB sees the RFC 3424 recommendations relating to  

new work on v4/v6 translation. Dave Thaler worked on a response,  

and at the meeting walked through several considerations with the  

rest of the IAB. The general theme of the response is that the  

previous IAB statements in RFC 3424 still hold, but that 3424  

guidance really applies to proposals where an originating endpoint  

attempts to determine or fix the address by which it is known to  

another endpoint, not to actual \*translation\* proposals. The IAB  

agrees that the real exit strategy to v4-v6 translation is  

universal IPv6 deployment.


Dave posted the text of the response for review by the IAB and will  

plan to send the response next week.


### 11. Conclude Call


