
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-07-23
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Stuart Cheshire  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dave Thaler  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Dave Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)


### 2. IETF 72 Technical Plenary Preparations


This was a special meeting to finalize preparations for the IETF 72  

technical plenary. The group reviewed the list of panelists, and  

identified a couple of back-up presenters. As of now, the panel is  

likely to consist of Lorenzo Colitti (Google), Mark Kosters (ARIN),  

Alain Durand (Comcast), Stuart Cheshire (Apple), and Shin Miyakawa  

(NTTcom). John Curran (ARIN) and Terry Davis (Boeing) were also  

contacted, but will not be able to participate.


The group then spent some time reviewing draft slides submitted by  

Lorenzo Colitti and Angus Lees of Google. Some of the interesting  

questions raised by the board, and suitable for the panel  

discussion, were:


– How did those deploying IPv6 get management buy-in to do so?


– How does IPv6 deployment benefit the company?


– What were the technical problems encountered during deployment?


– What were the timing and/or schedule factors of deployment?


– Were there any technology gaps identified along the way?


– What were the notable successes?


During the slide review there was a short discussion of Teredo (RFC  

4380) and NAT-PT as IPv6 transition options. The group also spent  

a few minutes at the end of the meeting discussing BOF coverage in  

Dublin and a plan for testing the Marratech conferencing software  

on 30 July.


