
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-08-06
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Dave Oran  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Barry Leiba  

Danny McPherson  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.3 Meeting Minutes


No final meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IAB Logo and Trust


It was agreed to contribute the new IAB logo that Dow had created  

to the IETF trust for trademark registration.


### 3. IETF NomCom


Dave Oran summarized a recent discussion that he, Olaf, and Danny  

had had with Joel Halpern (NOMCOM chair) regarding the IAB job  

description. The group then considered how to best coordinate with  

the NOMCOM on the topic of ‘candidate information sharing’. This  

was a source of concern during the last NOMCOM, since candidate  

questionnaires were not always clear about what information would  

be shared with the IAB. The board agreed to let the NOMCOM chair  

propose a straw-man approach for dealing with this issue. Dave  

Oran, as IAB liaison to the NOMCOM, will coordinate with Joel and  

report back to the IAB.


Board members also took an action to review and comment on the IAB  

job description by the end of the week, at which point it will be  

forwarded to Joel.


### 4. ICANN NomCom


The IAB decided to confirm Ole Jacobson for another term as the  

IAB-appointed member of the ICANN Board of Directors Nominating  

Committee.


### 5. RFC Editor Model


Olaf provided a short update on the RFC Editor Model description.  

There have been a few comments from the community following the  

presentation at the plenary, including additional input from Bob  

Braden. Olaf is in the process of revising the description, and  

will circulate an update to the IAB shortly. After one or two days  

of IAB-internal review the revised description will be posted  

publicly.


### 6. Assessment of Technical Plenary


The board discussed the recent technical plenary, and attempted to  

make an initial assessment of its success. Several members noted  

that they had heard only positive feedback. There was one negative  

comment from an IPv6 expert who said he didn’t get much out of the  

talk. A primary overall goal of the session was to help foster  

IPv6 adoption, a goal which will take some time to assess. Other  

observations included:


– The session covered the “barriers to adoption” item well.


– The panel discussion could have done a better job in covering the  

internal decisions of organizations to deploy IPv6, especially the  

business and management aspects. As panel moderator, Gregory  

pushed in this direction, particularly with Alain and Lorenzo, but  

the discussion never fully got into the details. It was recognized  

that there is some sensitivity related to these kind of business  

decisions, and that having an enterprise customer on the panel may  

have been helpful in this regard.


– The issues addressed by NATs reflect some of the important  

remaining use cases, and the IAB/IESG needs to keep this as a high  

priority work area.


– The plenary discussion remained positive throughout, and did not  

degrade into either IPv4 or IPv6 bashing.


– It would have been better to include a “call for action” at the  

close of the technical plenary. There was mention of this at the  

Thursday administrative plenary, but it might have had greater  

impact immediately following the panel discussion. The board  

decided to send out a broad email recapping the points of the  

plenary, and initiating a call for action on IPv6 deployment.


The group then discussed the overall approach to planning technical  

plenary sessions, including selecting a topic, establishing goals,  

identifying external participants, reviewing slides, etc. The  

board decided to plan plenaries one IETF ahead, so as to be able to  

discuss and recruit participation at the IETF meeting prior to the  

actual plenary. This should also address the issue of limited or  

last minute reviews of content. A new section will be added to the  

IAB internal wiki for tracking potential topics, and the template  

Gregory created for the IETF 72 tech plenary will be used as a  

guide for future plenary planning. Finally, “Evolution of the IP  

Model” was identified as a probable topic for IETF 73.


### 7. IAB/IAOC Schedule at IETF


The IAOC had asked about the scheduling of the IAB conference room  

on Wednesday morning at IETF. The group decided to keep Wednesday  

morning available as needed for IAB meetings. Olaf will coordinate  

with Russ and Marcia on the issue.


### 8. Topic for 8/27 Techchat


The group decided on ‘Evolution of the IP Model’ as the topic for  

the 27 August techchat. Dave Thaler will plan to lead the  

discussion, and everyone took an action to read the latest draft  

and review the prior notes and email threads. Other topics  

considered were sensor networks, TCP/AO, and a review of the RRG  

work. These topics be placed in the queue for an upcoming meeting.


### 9. Meeting Concluded


