
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


**30 January 2008**




---


### 1. Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash


#### 1.1 Agenda


1. [Roll-Call, Agenda-Bash](#1)
2. [Executive Session](#2)


#### 1.2 Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Joe Abley *(IAB Executive Director)*  

Loa Andersson  
   

Leslie Daigle  

Elwyn Davies  

Aaron Falk *(IRTF Chair)*  

Kevin Fall  
   

Russ Housley *(IETF Chair)*  
   

Olaf Kolkman *(IAB Chair)*  
   

Barry Leiba  
   

Danny McPherson  

David Oran  
   

Eric Rescorla  
   

Lynn St Amour *(ISOC Liaison)*  

Dave Thaler  
   

Mark Townsley *(IESG Liaison)*  

Lixia Zhang  




**APOLOGIES**  

Kurtis Lindqvist  




Note: This teleconference was a primarily an IAB tech chat, but was preceded by a brief business item and followed by a short executive session.


### 2. IAB Plenary Topics for IETF 71


A subcommittee, led by Barry, had been set up to find a topic and speaker for the IAB plenary session in Philadelphia. The IAB briefly discussed this committee’s short list of topics:


- low-power/lossy networks

- net neutrality

- Internet television

There was agreement that all three topics are interesting. The IAB selected Internet TV as the topic for Philadelphia, and discussed the possibility of net neutrality as a topic for a future plenary. The group then considered potential speakers for the Internet TV topic:


- Barry will contact Keith Ross

- Olaf will contact Marshall Eubanks

- Others will pursue contacts in France, at BBC, at Joost

Results of speaker contacts will be discussed on an upcoming business call.


### 3. Techchat – Arbor Networks’ Arbor Statistics Program


Danny McPherson presented material on Arbor Networks’ Arbor Statistics Program. Some notable elements of the discussion:


- the program does traffic analysis and attach detection

- examples of the data collected and the statistics produced

- details of some anomalies detected, discussion of the attacks

- discussion of ATLAS – Arbor Threat Level Analysis System

### 4. IAB Response to NomCom


The IAB entered an executive session to discuss NomCom and IESG candidates. It was decided that additional information about candidates was needed; the IAB will coordinate with NomCom on the matter. IAB liaisons and the IETF chair did not participate in the executive session.




---


These minutes were prepared by Barry Lieba and Dow Street. Any comments should be sent to [execd@iab.org](mailto:execd@iab.org). An online copy of these and other minutes is available at: [http://www.iab.org/documents/iabmins/](/documents/iabmins/)


