
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-06-25
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Gonzalo Camarillo  

Stuart Cheshire  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


### 2. IETF 72 Plenary


Olaf began the meeting with a few IETF 72 coordination items (e.g.  

IAB BOF coverage), and then the discussion moved to the Technical  

Plenary. Gregory had previously summarized the plan in an email,  

and during the meeting he proposed that the plenary focus on IPv6  

adoption successes, barriers, and IPv4 contingency planning. The  

overall goal would be to get the community to further engage in  

IPv6 adoption. A notable element of the transition debate involves  

the possibility of carrier grade NATs. The board intends to use a  

panel format for the plenary discussion, and will seek speakers  

from multiple perspectives: carrier, content provider, OS vendor,  

home gateway, etc. Danny and Dave Thaler will work to identify  

speakers; the board will review status at the next business  

meeting.


At the end of this agenda item there was a short discussion about  

the possible need for an IAB workshop on carrier grade NATs, 6-4,  

and some related impacts to BEHAVE work. The board will revisit  

this question after the Dublin meeting.


### 3. Architecture Topic – Securing Inter-domain Routing


Danny gave an update on the current lay-of-the-land in the world  

of securing inter-domain routing. The SIDR WG is working primarily  

on PKI and repositories, not really on the routing component  

itself. There are several additional touch-points needed between  

the certificate infrastructure and the routing protocol(s) before  

routing itself could actually be secured. These steps will need to  

involve RPSEC, IDR, GROW, and possibly OPSEC. Unfortunately, much  

of the discussion of authentication infrastructure is currently  

taking place outside the purview of the IETF ‘proper’, namely on  

the RESCERT mailing list:


http://mailman.apnic.net/mailman/listinfo/rescert


At some level, though the ‘design work’ is occurring via RESCERT,  

the expectation is that any output would be published via the IETF.  

Russ also noted that the discussion is likely to shift to IETF  

channels once the focus moves toward the routing mechanisms. All  

in all, there is a fair amount of work ongoing, but specific IAB  

next steps (if any) are not obvious.


The group discussed a possible IAB document that would provide a  

taxonomy of the components involved in securing inter-domain  

routing, in turn providing some context to how work might be spread  

across various WGs. At previous IAB meetings the group had  

discussed the architectural ramifications (e.g. security vs  

autonomy) for securing routing in the manner that is currently being  

pursued. This IAB document could also raise awareness of such  

architectural considerations. Danny volunteered to draft a  

document outline for consideration by the group.


### 4. Architecture Topic – Peer-to-Peer Architectures


Gonzalo led a discussion of the IAB peer-to-peer work item. The  

plan is to draft a document that provides a taxonomy of P2P  

architectures and relates P2P to server farms, grid computing, and  

client-server models. As agreed to previously by the IAB, the  

document would also emphasize that P2P approaches are useful for a  

variety of legitimate and legal purposes, helping to dispel any  

negative connotations of the technology.


Gonzalo has completed a literature survey and recently added a  

detailed document proposal to the internal IAB wiki. The draft  

would likely start as an individual document, and then transition  

to an IAB document prior to publication. Specific near-term feed-  

back was requested of all IAB members. Gonzalo will use this  

feedback to write an initial draft, which the IAB will discuss at  

the Sunday IETF meeting (Dublin).


### 5. AOB


There was a short discussion of an IPv6 experiment at the upcoming  

IETF. Stuart noted that such an experiment would be useful in  

continuing to motivate deployment of IPv6 services at Apple and  

elsewhere. It is likely that the Dublin meeting will not have a  

period where IPv4 connectivity is disabled (as was the case in  

Philadelphia), but that the IPv6-only network would be available  

throughout the conference sessions. Minneapolis was targeted as a  

first possibility for another “no v4” experiment, allowing more  

time between experiments for implementation of IPv6 services.


Olaf noted that there is some follow-up work needed with IANA over  

the next few weeks. He will send an email to list.


### 6. Conclude Call


