
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-06-18
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson  

Stuart Cheshire  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Danny McPherson  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were approved during this call. There was a  

short discussion about the progress on catch-up minutes.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn noted that there is an OECD meeting in Seoul right now with  

17 member organizations who have been very participative and  

instructive in helping focus on Internet-related issues. Olaf is  

also at the meeting, as are participants from many RIR’s. The  

technical content has been heavy on IPv6. The last Ministerial  

meeting was held 10 years ago, so this is a very significant event.  

Olaf suggested that future OECD activities will require active  

participation from the technical and civil communities. ISOC will  

be a direct partner in future OECD work.


Lynn also announced the upcoming ISOC BoTs meeting on 28-29 June,  

which is open to all interested individuals.


(begin ISOC Liaison written report)



```
- OECD Ministerial on the Future of the Internet Economy

The Internet Society was invited by the OECD to coordinate the 
Internet technical stakeholders forum at the OECD Ministerial on 
the Future of the Internet Economy held in Seoul, Korea the 
16th-18th June 2008.   There were 17 organizations (including the 
IAB and IETF) that participated in drafting a Memorandum.   The 
Forum and the Memorandum served as direct input into the 
Ministerial's work and their Seoul Declaration. 

See: http://www.isoc.org/pubpolpillar/ for the Memorandum, agenda, 
presentations and various other announcements.

Olaf Kolkman was active in the Stakeholder's Forum and for a 
picture of him in a suit, see: 
http://www.isoc.org/isoc/headlines/20080616.shtml

The previous Ministerial was held ten years ago.

- ISOC's next Board meeting will be held the 28th - 29th June, 2008 
in Paris following the ICANN meeting.  The final Board agenda will 
be posted shortly at:

http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/meetings.shtml.  ISOC's 
Board meetings are open and all are welcome.
```

(end ISOC Liaison written report)


#### 2.2. RFC Editor Liaison


Sandy reported that the RFC Editor site is now IPv6 capable, and  

that they had also sent instructions on how to get documents online  

(vs just through email retrieval).


(begin RFC Editor Liaison written report)



```
RFC Editor Report to the IAB:

1. The RFC Editor web site is now live using IPv6.
There are AAAA records for www.rfc-editor.org and rfc-editor.org.

2. The RFC publication announcement has been updated to be more 
clear and to provide information via URLs rather than email-based 
retrieval. The new text went into use May 29th.
```

(end RFC Editor Liaison written report)


#### 2.3. IESG Liaison


Mark indicated that he had sent a written report to the IAB list.  

There were no questions nor discussion needed.


(begin IESG Liaison written report)



```
Since the last IESG liaison report sent on May 20, the IESG has had 
two formal telechats, one on May 22 and the other on June 5. In 
total, 43 internet drafts were brought to the two formal telechats 
for review and action by the IESG. Two new working groups were 
approved, "Reachability of Inter/tra-NetworK SIP (drinks)" and 
"Source Address Validation Improvements (savi)." Three working 
group were rechartered "RADIUS EXTensions (radext)," "EAP Method 
Update (emu)," "Mobility EXTensions for IPv6 (mext)." The IESG held 
a two day retreat May 29 and 30 in New York City, which will be 
reported upon separately. There was a joint BoF discussion 
conference call with the IAB for IETF 71 on June 12, four potential 
BoFs (MORG, ALTO, LISP, MULTIMOB) and one potential WG (IPSECME) 
were discussed. More information may be found on the BoF wiki here: 
http://www3.tools.ietf.org/bof/trac/wiki
```

(end IESG Liaison written report)


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Aaron noted that the AntiSpam research chair will be available for  

the IAB-RG review during the IETF meeting in Dublin (Thursday AM).  

There were no other IRTF items to report.


(no IRTF Chair written report was submitted)


### 3. IETF 72 Plenary


The group discussed possible topics for the IETF 72 plenary, and  

began to converge on a topic in the area of IPv6 deployment and  

v4-v6 transition. Several aspects of the space were considered,  

including ISP and end-host deployment challenges, the prospect of  

carrier grade NATs, and possible incentives for IPv6 adoption.


There was agreement that this topic area would make for a good  

plenary, but that additional work was needed to refine the scope  

and focus of the session. Gregory will work with other interested  

IAB members to progress the plan over the next week. Other topics  

that were discussed by deferred for a later date were “time”,  

network neutrality, and end-to-end optical switching.


### 4. Architecture Topic – User Control of Traffic


Dave Oran gave an update on the work plan for the ‘User Control of  

Traffic’ topic. The topic considers methods for users to provide  

guidance to their network / ISP about their traffic handling  

preferences. Dave suggested the IAB survey existing tools in this  

area, and possibly encourage the development of additional tools if  

needed. The group then considered a bar BOF at IETF 72, and  

attempted to identify what action in this area (if any) would be  

particularly suited for the IAB.


A few upcoming work ideas in P2P may have some overlap with this  

topic. The group will review the current draft description, and  

Dave Oran will talk to several ADs (Jon, Cullen, Lars, Lisa) in  

order to help tease out any IAB next-steps.


### 5. Liaison Shepherds


Dave Oran, with some assistance from Loa and Danny, had updated the  

definition and role of IAB “Liaison Shepherds”. At a high level,  

shepherds will assist liaisons in tracking items of interest to the  

IETF and IAB. Board members were asked to review the latest role  

description and to sign up as shepherds.


### 6. Feedback on “Principles of Internet Host Configuration”


An 04 draft of the document is available. Olaf indicated that the  

IAB would take one additional week for review and then proceed to  

an IETF last call. All board members were requested to conduct a  

final review of the draft.


### 7. Update on IANA Relation


Olaf gave an update on recent discussions concerning the role of  

the IETF and IAB in governance of the protocol parameter registry.  

The group discussed IANA’s solid performance in their current  

contract, as well as coordination in this area with the US Dept. of  

Commerce. The board agreed that the authoritative role of the IETF  

in determining the use of IETF protocol parameters is not always  

obvious to the larger community, and that this role should be  

noted in upcoming DoC coordination.


### 8. 802.1 Liaison Discussion


The IAB agreed to appoint Eric Grey as the new IETF liaison to  

802.1. Loa will act as liaison shepherd.


### 9. Conclude Call


