
Minutes IAB Teleconference 2008-06-04
-------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


##### PRESENT


Loa Andersson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

Stuart Cheshire  

Russ Housely (IETF Chair)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Gregory Lebovitz  

Barry Leiba  

Kurtis Lindqvist  

Andy Malis  

Dave Oran  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Mark Townsley (IESG liaison)  

Lixia Zhang


##### APOLOGIES


Gonzalo Camarillo  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Danny McPherson


#### 1.3. Administrivia


It was noted that the primary goal for the meeting was to review  

work plans for the IAB architecture topics identified at the  

retreat.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The IAB approved minutes from the 2008-01-16 meeting.


### 2. Action Item Status


In order to maximize time for architecture topics only notable  

action item and document status updates were discussed rather  

than the usual review of all items. Olaf stated that there was a  

status change for the Infrastructure ENUM document – the last call  

has gone out and been responded to, and there is a draft liaison  

statement that will be finalized after last call.


### 3. Document Status


Dave Thaler asked when the email would go out to publish the  

protocol success document, and Olaf responded that it would occur  

this week. Dave then commented that Bernard had posted the changes  

to the IP host configuration draft, and that it was ready for  

further review by the IAB.


### 4. Architecture Topics – Work Plan Review


Olaf noted that there had been little progress on the architecture  

topics in the last week, with the exception of the P2P topic.  

Gonzalo added material on P2P to the internal IAB wiki, but was not  

available for the call today. Dow suggested the group could review  

Dave Thaler’s material on the Evolution of the IP Model, and the  

group then decided to do so.


#### 4.1. Evolution of the IP Model


Dave Thaler led a discussion on the Evolution of the IP Model,  

walking through a work plan he had posted to the IAB wiki. The  

overall goal of the proposed document would be to assemble the list  

of common assumptions that higher layers make about the network  

layer, and then provide guidance on the impacts of changing these  

assumptions. The IAB will then attempt to give guidance on which  

assumptions are good to restore, as well as which assumptions are  

either no longer valid or unlikely / unable to be restored.


At the IAB retreat Dave had discussed a list of possible IAB  

actions in this area (e.g. document, workshop, techchat), and it  

now appears that the document will be be the primary work item.  

The group also briefly discussed the possibility of scheduling the  

topic as an IETF plenary presentation once the work matures.  

There is an upcoming seminar hosted by Lars Eggert that has  

participants from the research community, and Dave intends to give  

an introductory presentation on the topic at that meeting. This  

seminar should be a good opportunity to get some initial ideas and  

feedback from outside the IAB.


The rest of the IAB was requested to provide examples of IP Model  

assumptions, which Dave will collect and then work with the  

contributors to draft an initial document. A technical discussion  

followed of areas of IETF work where there are potential collisions  

between lower and upper layers, areas that might be aided by this  

type of IAB document (e.g. ID/LOC split).


At the close of this agenda item the other topic leads were asked  

to prepare similar material for their topics by the next IAB  

meeting.


#### 4.2. Firewalls and IPv6


(no further discussion)


#### 4.3. Securing Inter-domain Routing


(no further discussion)


#### 4.4. Peer-to-Peer Architectures


(no further discussion)


#### 4.5. User Control of Traffic


(no further discussion)


### EXECUTIVE SESSION


### 5. Liaison Discussion


At this point in the meeting the board entered an executive session  

to discuss Liaisons to ISO TC46 and 802.1.


#### 5.1. Liaison to TC46


The TC46 liaison would be a new IETF relationship with ISO, and the  

IAB decided on John Klensin for that liaison role.


#### 5.2. Liaison to 802.1


The current 802.1 liaison, Bert Wijnen, has indicated that he  

intends to resign from the position once a replacement can be found.  

Loa took an action to contact the relevant working groups and  

develop a list of potential candidates.


### 6. AOB


Olaf gave a brief update on recent conversations with IANA and DoC  

staff on plans to deploy DNSSEC, and to sign the .arpa and root  

domains.


### 7. Conclude Call


