
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2009-12-09


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda changes were made.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


During agenda item #5, Andy mentioned that the TLP draft is almost ready. The board agreed that barring major new issues, the document is ready for submission at the conclusion of the public call for comments.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The transcript from the IETF 76 Technical Plenary has been cleaned up and is ready for a final IAB review before posting to the IETF proceedings page. Unlike previous IETF meetings, the IETF 76 plenary had a professional transcriptionist. There was general agreement that having a live projected transcription of the presentations and Q&A was very helpful, especially for participants who are not native english speakers. It was further noted that fully correcting this transcript for posting to the proceedings is somewhat labor intensive, so a later discussion was planned to decide how to handle any future transcripts of this type.


### 2. Short Items and Updates


#### 2.1. RSE / ISE Update


Olaf reported that ISE and RSE interviews are still ongoing. There is less urgency to close on candidates before the end of the year now that Bob Braden has been retained. John will forward the current candidate list to the IAB.


#### 2.2. RPKI Statement and Coordination with ISOC, NRO, etc


Olaf reported that after the last ISOC meeting, he, Leslie Daigle, and Bill Graham had talked about the fact that in discussions between ISOC staff and representatives of the European Commission (EC) the topic of RPKI had come up. In that context he asked Bill Graham to comment on the IAB’s draft statement. Olaf also reported that he had shared a draft with Raul Echeberria (LACNIC, NRO Chair) in order to inform the NRO on the forthcoming statement. There was a short discussion about further coordination with ISOC and the NRO; the IAB will revisit this work item in the coming weeks.


#### 2.3. Meeting with Rod Beckstrom


Olaf summarized his recent meeting with Rod Beckstrom, who recently took over as ICANN Chair. The primary topic they discussed was the IANA function, specifically the protocol parameters registration, that is currently being executed by ICANN and for which the IAB has an oversight responsibility. They also briefly talked about .local and the recent ICANN root scaling report.


#### 2.4 .local


The board entered into a discussion of .local, particularly whether this kind of ‘reservation’ had specific IETF or IANA considerations issues issue. Stuart noted that with .local there is no NS record, so it is beyond what you can express with usual mechanisms. The group then considered other potentially similar requests that could arise in the future. Dave Oran noted that a reservation of this type would prevent the string from being assigned in the future as a TLD. Dave Thaler added that there are the separate questions of (i) the process for adding an entry to the reserved list and (ii) process for using something already on that list. A new registry for this kind of names was suggested as a possibility. Stuart argued that the particular nature of .local made it unlikely that there would be other similar needs like this in the future. The IAB will coordinate further with the IESG and IANA on a way forward.


### 3. Plenary Preparations for IETF 77 and IETF 78


Danny is in the process of developing the draft plan for the IETF 77 plenary. He pointed the board to the draft plan on the internal IAB wiki. Vijay is currently coordinating the IETF 78 talk, but was not on the IAB call due to a schedule conflict.


### 4. IETF 76 Follow-up and Document on Internationalization


The board briefly re-visited the idea of an IAB / ISOC white-paper on the Protocol Internationalization topic. Dave Thaler, John, and Lynn will discuss further offline.


### 5. IAB Advisory Group on ITU-T Technical Work


Olaf had recently proposed an IAB advisory group to assist in tracking ITU-T technical work. He asked the board to comment on the idea via the mailing list.


### 6. Action Item Review


Note: Due to time constraints, only the following action items were reviewed:


#### 6.1. Infrastructure Enum


This IAB tracking item was closed based on the recent liaison response from the ITU-T.


#### 6.2. Anycast


The group confirmed their intent to take this as an IAB draft, and will begin tracking it as document status item.


#### 6.3. Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


This action will be revisited in the context of the white-paper discussion and the Encoding draft (see below).


### 7. Document Status


Note: Due to time constraints, only the following documents were reviewed:


#### 7.1. IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


Dave Thaler suggested maintaining the current scope of the document rather than adding material on mappings, which could instead be published as a separate document. This will allow the current draft to be finalized sooner. John agreed to draft some introductory text that puts the current document in the larger of the larger problem space. They will also talk to Patrik Faltstrom and Rob Austein about adding some history on the development of punycode.


