
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-12-02


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

 Marcelo Bagnulo  

 Ron Bonica  

 Gonzalo Camarillo  

 Stuart Cheshire  

 Vijay Gill  

 Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

 Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

 Gregory Lebovitz  

 David Oran  

 Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

 Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

 Andy Malis  

 Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

 Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

 John Klensin  

 Danny McPherson  

 Jon Peterson  

 Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda changes were made.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Olaf noted that he will communicate informally with NRO Secretary, Raul Echeberria, on the RPKI, and will report any feedback to the IAB. Olaf will also meet informally with Rod Beckstrom, ICANN President, next week in Brussels.


Danny and Olaf are currently working on ver. 5 of draft-iab-iana, and Olaf noted that Rod is aware of the document.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Techchat on Routing Scalability and Incentives


The board entered into a discussion of global routing scalability and the nature of incentives in the current model. This topic came out of the last IETF meeting, where the IAB met with the IRTF RRG chairs (Tony Li and Lixia Zhang). The RRG intends to produce a recommendation in the coming months on how to address routing system scalability. Among today’s scalability concerns is  

the property that performing prefix de-aggregation to achieve traffic engineering provides a local benefit to the end-site but incurs a cost  

in the global routing state. During the call the IAB considered this issue, along with some possible future incentives frameworks and next steps.


There was general agreement that a fee-for-prefix model would be undesirable, but that some better alignment of costs and benefits might be feasible. Vijay suggested a data-collection activity with providers and customers as an approach to determine requirements. The IAB might then lead additional work in this area, or turn the data over to the RRG. Marcelo noted that the RRG, SHIM6, and others had tried to obtain this kind of information in the past, but that it is very hard to get from providers. The group considered turning the existing RRG requirements into a questionnaire or survey. After more discussion, it was agreed that the RRG work had matured, and that the best IAB contribution might be to assist in bringing together people from the operator community who may not be involved in the RRG at present. Vijay will coordinate further with Aaron and the RRG chairs to determine whether an IAB-sponsored workshop would be helpful.


### 3. Techchat Queue


There was a short conversation about possible future techchat topics: identity architectures, web-services, sensor networks. Olaf will invite Lucy Lynch (ISOC) to give a presentation on identity management at the January 6 meeting.


