
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-09-23


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo


\* Gonzalo Camarillo


  Stuart Cheshire  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Jon Peterson  

  Andy Malis  

  David Oran  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Danny McPherson


\* Participated in only part of the meeting due to a schedule conflict.


#### 1.2. Agenda


It was agreed that the board would drop into EXEC SESSION for part of the RSE topic, since discussion of individual candidates was likely. Two items were added to All Other Business (AOB).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


There were no questions about Lynn’s written report.


<begin ISOC liaison written report>


ISOC’s Liaison Report to the IAB  

Wednesday, September 23


Topics:  

1. ISOC Paper on “Addressing Unwanted Traffic on the Internet” 2. ISOC Roundtable on Secure Routing  

3. ISOC Participates at the 10th RANS Conference  

4. The Kantara Initiative Board Meeting  

5. US Government’s Open Identity Initiative  

6. 2010 ISOC Board of Trustees Calendar


### 1. ISOC Paper on “Addressing Unwanted Traffic on the Internet IEEE Internet Computing accepted ISOC’s paper on “Addressing Unwanted Traffic on the Internet: A Community Response.” (Mat Ford & Leslie Daigle).


2. ISOC Roundtable on Secure Routing  

On September 16-17, ISOC held a closed roundtable of operators to discuss short- and long-term requirements for securing routing information – complementary to discussions on-going in SIDR working group. A public report from the roundtable will be forthcoming.


3. ISOC Participates at the 10th RANS Conference  

ISOC participated and was a sponsor at the 10th Russian Association of Networks and Services (RANS) Conference, September 2 – 4 in Vatutinki, Russia. ISOC’s Technology Program Manager, John Schnizlein, delivered ISOC President and CEO’s remarks at the Opening Ceremony, and also gave an overview of ISOC’s activities in the Standards and Technology realm – IPv6 and Internet security – at pre-opening tutorial. While the formal programme was quite telecomm focussed, John Schnizlein did report good conversations and hope for positive progress with the Internet network people on the topic of deploying DNSSEC.


4. The Kantara Initiative Board Meeting  

The Kantara Initiative held it’s first face to face Board meeting in Las Vegas, NV the week of September 14 in conjunction with Digital ID World. The agenda included operational meetings of the Board of Trustees and the Leadership Council as well and a number of Working Group meetings.


<http://kantarainitiative.org/confluence/dashboard.action>


Lucy Lynch, Director of Trust and Identity Initiatives, holds a seat on the Board of Trustees and Trent Adams, Outreach Specialist – Identity Community, chairs the leadership Council.


5. US Government’s Open Identity Initiative  

The US government is pursing an Open Identity Initiative housed within the GSA: [http://www.idmanagement.gov/drilldown.cfm?action=](https://www.idmanagement.gov/drilldown.cfm?action= ) openID\_openGOV


The initial phase will include white listing on major service providers (by url) in order to enable OpenID. Google and Yahoo are both already blessed and others will follow. The current scheme raises some concerns for future levels of assurance, for scalability, and for inter-federation (management of multiple roots or trust anchors). OpenID and Information Card providers are working to understand the NIST requirements and the GSA hosted a meeting for privacy experts in August to collect feedback.


[http://www.idmanagement.gov/drilldown.cfm?action=privacy\_workshop](https://www.idmanagement.gov/drilldown.cfm?action=privacy_workshop)


Trent Adams and Karen Rose were both in attendance.


### 6. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting Calendar


ISOC Board meetings are open and participation is welcome


Meeting 76, 4-5 December 2009 in Amsterdam, Netherlands, Meeting 77, 27-28 March 2010 – Anaheim, USA (with IETF 77) Meeting 78, 17 May 2010 – Teleconference  

Meeting 79 and 80, 19-20 June 2010 – Brussels, Belgium (with ICANN) Meeting 81, September 2010 – Teleconference  

Meeting 82, 13-14 November 2010 – (with IETF 79)


<end ISOC liaison written report>


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Ron did not participate in the call due to a schedule conflict. Dow reminded the board of the upcoming BOF planning call with the IESG, and will add it to the IAB wiki.


<no IESG Liaison written report was submitted>


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


Sandy reminded the board that the call for the Independent Submission draft ends on the 13th, and that comments should be sent to the RFC-interest mailing list. Olaf noted that this I-D is related to the IRTF Stream Definition draft on which Aaron is working.


<begin RFC Editor written report>


RFC Editor Report to the IAB


1) TLP Changes


– As of 12 September, we are using the new copyright and license notice as approved by the Trust. See the announcement message at: [http://www.ietf.org/ibin/c5i?mid=6&rid=49&gid=0&k1=934&k2=6953&tid=](http://www.ietf.org/ibin/c5i?mid=6&rid=49&gid=0&k1=934&k2=6953&tid= ) 1253641455  

– The updated TLP enabled several documents that were awaiting resolution of the BSD license text to be published.  

– As of 12 September, the full text of the BSD license or the short form of the BSD license will appear in RFCs containing code components if the authors have included a license in the code in the Internet-Draft.


2) Independent Submissions Copyright


– Draft-braden-independent-submission-00.txt has been posted to describe the incoming and outgoing rights desired for the Independent stream.  

– A 30-day last call was issued on 14 September 2009; last call will expire on 14 October. Please direct discussion to <rfc-interest@rfc-editor.org>.


– Independent Submissions Stuck in the RFC Editor Queue


 AUTH48: 19 (some were already in AUTH48 when RFC 5378 was  

 published)  

 RFC-EDIT: 2 (will soon be stuck in AUTH48)  

 EDIT: 2 (will soon be stuck in AUTH48)


(There are also a handful of IRTF documents in our queue, but in addition to waiting for the copyright issue to be resolved, they are also waiting for 3932bis to be approved.)


<end RFC Editor written report>


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


There were no questions about Aaron’s written report.


<begin IRTF Chair written report>


IRTF Report:


 \* Updated draft-irtf-rfcs-04 with rights language adapted from  

   draft-braden-independent-submission.  

 \* IRTF RFC publication still blocked by RFC3932bis  

 \* IRSG discussed a proposal from Ron Bonica to hold an IRTF  

   workshop on DNS  

 \* RGs planning to meet at IETF-76: RRG, SAMRG, HIPRG, DTNRG


<end IRTF Chair written report>


### 3. IAOC China Clause


On 19 September the IAOC sent a request for community feedback on the prospect of holding a future meeting in China. Subsequent discussion has taken place on various mailing lists, including IETF-announce. On the call the IAB considered the situation, partly in the context of published “openness” goals of the IETF and previous IAB correspondence with the U.N. on “Enhanced Cooperation”. After a short discussion, it was agreed that the IAB as a body need not take a position or make a formal statement at this time, though some members may provide individual feedback to the IAOC. The IAB will continue to track this item, and coordinate as appropriate with the IAOC.


### 4. IETF 77


Danny had previously distributed a draft report of a large-scale study of global Internet traffic characteristics. The study was conducted by Arbor Networks, the University of Michigan, and Merit Network, and represented one of the largest of its kind conducted since Internet commercialization. Several board members had reviewed the report, and there was general agreement that the study could serve as the foundation for an IAB plenary topic, perhaps for IETF 77. Further consideration was moved to the IAB mailing list.


### 5. IETF 76


Dave Thaler, Stuart, and John summarized the current thinking on IETF 76 plenary topic. There was interest in expanding the scope of the talk to cover encoding, mapping, matching, and sorting, but whether to discuss all of these areas in the draft will be decided later. A next step will be to agree on goals for the plenary session, and to identify possible guest speakers and/or panelists. A follow-on phone conference was planned for the next week.


### 6. .arpa and DNSSEC


Olaf asked if there were any questions or comments about the recent correspondence from David Conrad on the signing of .arpa. A short discussion followed, during which there were some concerns raised about the rate of progress. Olaf will draft a response based on the meeting conversation.


### 7. ACEF Advice on RSE / RSE Way Forward


Note: Aaron dropped from the call at this point. Sandy participated in the first part of this agenda item, and then dropped midway through once the board began discussing personnel.


The IAB dropped into a lengthy discussion of the recent ACEF recommendation on RSE candidates, and possible next steps in the selection process. Some concerns were expressed about the nature, scope, and required expertise of the RSE role as it is currently defined. There was agreement within the IAB to conduct further discussion and deliberation over the next few weeks, and return to the topic during the 14 October business meeting.


### 9. AOB


#### 9.1. Successes and Failures Wiki


Dave Thaler brought to the IAB’s attention an effort by Dave Crocker to capture information about the successes and failures of various IETF protocols. The web site is, in spirit, something of a follow-on to RFC 5218. It was suggested that IAB members take a look at the site for more context. The IAB had no objections to it, or to hosting it at ietf.org, but did not have cycles to drive it, and the only concern was about whether the content would be able to reflect any consensus. It was suggested the issue be raised with the IESG. Dave Oran will bring the  

effort to the attention of the IESG.


#### 9.2. P2P Architectures Draft


There was agreement that the P2P Architectures draft is ready to move to the RFC Editor queue. It was also agreed that the NAT66 draft is ready to submit for a call for comments.


