
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-11-04


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)


\* John Klensin


  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Vijay Gill  

  Andy Malis


\* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


\* Note: John and Lynn joined the call near the start of item 4.


#### 1.2. Agenda


It was agreed to begin with the Executive Session topics, and then use the remaining time to work on the IETF 76 Plenary material. The order of the agenda was also modified to ensure that John could participate in item 4.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Olaf informed the group that arrangements had been made for the IAB dinner on Sunday 8 November.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


The board conducted items 2 and 3 as an Executive Session. Aaron and Ron were asked to remain on the call.


### 2. Smart Grid Liaison


The board had been considering potential candidates to act as the IETF liaison to the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel (SGIP). Dave Oran compiled a list of potential candidates, which the IAB then discussed over email. At this meeting the board formally confirmed Fred Baker to serve in the role. Due to an existing schedule commitment of Fred’s, Danny will cover the upcoming SGIP meeting in Denver the week of 16 November.


### 3. RSE Next Steps


At the previous business meeting the board agreed to inform the community of their determination that the RSE role needed to be re- scoped for the initial RSE term. This ‘Transitional RSE’ would have a shorter contract period and more focus on scoping and defining the longer-term activites of follow-on RSEs. The board had also agreed to ask the IAD to inquire about extending the relationship with the incumbent for a short period of time, to allow for a smooth transition. (Details of this arrangement will be worked out at a later date.)


Over the past week several board members had drafted pieces of correspondence relaying this decision to involved parties. On this call Olaf confirmed final agreement on the correspondence text and the overall path forward. There was unanimous agreement by the board.


Editor’s note: An update and new call for nominations was sent to the IETF-announce list on 5 November 2009. The message is available here:


<http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg06709.html>


### 4. IETF 76 Technical Plenary Preparations


The rest of the call was used as a working session for the IETF 76 Technical Plenary. Dave Thaler walked through the draft slides, and the group discussed various additions and clarifications to the material. Lynn agreed to send Dave some supplementary information on internationalization that ISOC has been tracking. Dave, Stuart, and John Klensin will be finalizing the slides over the next few days, and the IAB will have another review on Tuesday, 10 November.


