
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-01-07


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Loa Anderson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Barry Leiba  

  Kurtis Lindqvist  

  Andy Malis  

  David Oran  

  Danny McPherson  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Lixia Zhang  

**APOLOGIES:**  

  Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow informed the group that he had set up individual accounts for accessing the internal IAB wiki, and that the common account will be disabled in the near future.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No final meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF/IRTF Work Split


The IESG recently requested the IAB to provide their perspective on how work is and/or should be divided between the IRTF and IETF. Olaf introduced the topic, and then summarized the draft response. On the general question of work split, board members agreed on these key points:


– there are benefits to keeping the overall boundary vague.  

– the IAB role in reviewing charters allows for input that is tailored to each situation.


There was also a discussion about the specific case of the IRTF Routing Research Group, and possible plans to move work from the RRG into the IETF. Both Lixia (RRG Chair) and Aaron (IRTF Chair) were on the call, and the consensus was that the RRG work is not yet mature enough to transition to a standards track activity in the IETF.


Board members will review the draft response to the IESG, and Olaf will send the final text on to the IESG. However, it was noted that additional discussion with the IESG would be beneficial, so the topic was added to the agenda for the joint IAB/IESG meeting at IETF 74.


### 3. ICANN Board Liaison Report / gTLDs


Danny described recent ICANN efforts to introduce new gTLDs and single letter second letter names e.g., x.com), and to fast-track domain name internationalization. Thomas Narten (IETF liaison to ICANN) recently sent a report on this ICANN work; There is also a new ICANN strategic plan available for review. Several notable organizations (e.g., Microsoft) have already provided feedback to ICANN.


The IAB discussed possible technical issues that could result from the proposed changes. In particular, there could be scalability concerns if new gTLDs, IPv6, DNSSEC, etc. are all added to DNS over a short time period. Dave Oran noted that creating a lot of new gTLDs will increase the frequency by which the root will need to be re-signed. Kurtis added that, so far, the root has been good at spreading load using anycast, but bandwidth limitations will make it difficult to put large zones all across the world. This could make root servers more vulnerable to attack.


Danny will work Barry, Lixia, Kurtis, and Olaf to assess the situation, and then come back to the IAB to determine next steps At that point the group will decided whether to take a formal IAB position on the matter.


### 4. RFC Publication and New Copyright Notice


Publication of new RFCs has been limited as of late due to open issues with the new copyright changes. The IAB has asked the RFC Editor to go back to authors who submitted during the transition period and ask them for a note of consent. If no consent is granted, the RFC Editor will hold the publication until the open issues with RFC 5378 are resolved.


Olaf and Russ gave an update on the current status. Discussion is taking place on the ietf mailing list:


<https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/ietf>


There were no immediate actions identified for the IAB, but the board may need to revisit the topic if author consent cannot be obtained for documents caught in the transition period.


### 5. NAT66


The board continued their discussion of NAT66. At the last meeting the discussion focused on the use of NATs to avoid re-numbering. Today the discussion moved to multi-homing and router/subnet hiding. Dave Oran noted that it would be beneficial for the IAB to say “which problems NAT66 is appropriate for solving” ,rather than just “what is bad about NAT66”. Dave Thaler added that it would be useful to relate NAT66 guidance to v4/v6 transition and the prior work on UNSAF. The group set aside time on 14 January for a longer NAT66 discussion.


### 6. Action Items


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints. IAB members were asked to update the status of their items on the IAB wiki.


### 7. Document Status


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints. IAB members were asked to update the status of their items on the IAB wiki.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION:**


Note: At the point in the meeting liaisons dropped from the call. Russ participated in the IAOC selection, but recused himself from the NOMCOM and Appeal discussions (due to his role as IETF Chair).


### 8. IAOC Selection


The IAB finalized their selection for the IAOC, and will announce the decision after re-confirming the candidate’s availability.


### 9. NOMCOM Confirmation


After significant discussion, the IAB confirmed the IESG slate that was submitted by the NOMCOM. Olaf will inform the NOMCOM chair, who will re-confirm availability of the candidates and announce the decision.


During the confirmation process the IAB noted several areas where the selection and approval processes could be improved. They will work with the NOMCOM chair and the larger community on the matter once this selection cycle has concluded.


### 10. JFC Appeal


This agenda item was deferred until the 14 January meeting due to time constraints.


