
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2009-09-09


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Jon Peterson  

**ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS**


\* Patrik Faltstrom


\* Note: Patrik participated in agenda items 3.2 and 3.3


#### 1.2. Agenda


Two items were added to the meeting agenda: an appeal to the IETF Trust and further discussion of RPKI.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF 76 Plenary


Dave Thaler had previously sent a set of draft goals for the upcoming IETF plenary, which will focus on character encoding and protocol internationalization. He asked other IAB members to provide feedback.


### 3. Liaison issues


#### 3.1. Zigbee Alliance Liaison


The board agreed to establish a new liaison relationship with the Zigbee Alliance, and to appoint J.P Vasseur as the liaison manager. Dave Oran will inform the necessary parties, and will serve as the IAB liaison shepherd.


#### 3.2. Developing Criteria and Documenting Motivations for Liaison Appointments


There was a short discussion about \*ongoing\* IAB management of liaisons with outside organizations. It was noted that over time it has sometimes been the case that the original motivation for establishing a liaison has been lost as IAB members have turned over. The board decided to establish an internal process of record keeping (via the IAB wiki) to help retain this history. There was also agreement to begin drafting a set of informal guidelines and considerations which can be used to help the IAB determine if and when a new liaison relationship should be established.


#### 3.3. ISO TC 204 Liaising


John introduced this topic by providing background on the various levels of the ISO organization with which the IETF might establish liaison relationships, and how the level impacts the nature of coordination between ISO and the IETF. Most of the former and existing liaisons have been with sub-committees under communications, but the IAB has previously requested a Category A liaison with JCT 1. This question of whether a TC 204 liaison is needed came out of some correspondence between Patrik and ISO; 204 is focused on information and comms systems, public transport, emergency services, etc, and there was some interest within TC 204 in leveraging existing IETF protocols.


The board decided not to seek a new liaison right now, but asked Patrik to gather some additional information and report back.


### 4. Action Item Review [10 min]


#### 4.1. Anycast


Danny reported that he had not received any further feedback on the document. Vijay and Dow stated that they would review the updated version.


#### 4.2. Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM Doc


Olaf stated that this action can be closed now that the liaison has been sent:


<https://datatracker.ietf.org/documents/LIAISON/file665.txt>


#### 4.3. Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


It was noted that this topic is closely related to, and partly covered by, the IETF 76 Plenary topic (see item 2). Any additional IAB actions in this area will be identified as that work matures.


#### 4.4. IDN-TLD considerations


No change in status. Olaf will send email to John with a pointer to the document on general TLD considerations, which is related to this action item.


#### 4.5. UTF-8, IDNA, Punycode, etc.


##### 4.5.1. General issues


Dave Thaler reported that he had received feedback on the draft from two individuals, and will revise the document before the next business meeting.


##### 4.5.2. Exclusive adoption of UTF-8 for everything


Stuart will consult with Dave to determine whether this action is covered by the draft above, or if a separate document is needed.


#### 4.6. Will IPv6 break the Internet?


Andy reported that based on the research he has conducted since the retreat this item can be closed.


#### 4.7. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change in status.


### 5. Document Status


#### 5.1 Uncoordinated Protocol Development Considered Harmful


Andy reported that he had received a new revision from Stewart that addresses all of the comments. He will send it to the IAB list for a quick turn-around review.


#### 5.2 On RFC Streams Headers and Boilerplates


Olaf reported that this document in the RFC Editor queue, and is waiting on 3932bis (which is being discussed on the IETF mailing list). 3932bis has a clause in Section 5 that says “The IAB has reviewed…” The final text of this clause will need to be approved by the IAB once 3932bis is finalized, which could be this week.


#### 5.3 DNS Synthesis Concerns


No change in status.


#### 5.4 A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


No change in status.


#### 5.5 Evolution of the IP Model


No change in status. Dave Thaler will attempt to spin this draft prior to the Hiroshima deadline.


#### 5.6 IAB IANA Draft


This document has had recent discussion, including comments from Leslie and several on the IAB. The best form and scope for this document is still being debated.


#### 5.7 P2P Architectures


Gonzalo has one small change to make to this draft, and then will distribute it to the IAB for a 10 day review period.


#### 5.8 IAB Thoughts on IPv6 Network Address Translation


Dave Thaler has revised the document to incorporate Gregory’s comments and is waiting for additional feedback from Lixia Zhang.


### 6. AOB


#### 6.1. Appeal to the Trust


John had previously filed a request for reconsideration from the Trust, and he received a response on the matter last week. He has not yet decided what to do, but wanted to give the IAB notice that this could turn into a formal appeal. In this case, the IAB will need to decide on a procedure to deal with the appeal. This could entail an open discussion to try and reach consensus, or he, Russ, Olaf, and Lynn could recuse from the determination process.


There was rough consensus that the remaining members of the board not subject to recusal would make a determination on the way forward if and when the formal appeal was submitted. Vijay offered to head up this process if it is necessary.


#### 6.2. RPKI Summary / Statement


It was decided to take this item to the IAB mailing list rather than discuss it on the call.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION:**


At this point in the meeting Aaron, Lynn, and Ron dropped from the call.


### 7. ICANN NOMCOM Liaison


After a short discussion, the board unanimously agreed to appoint Henk as the ICANN NOMCOM liaison.


### 8. RSE / ISE Update


Olaf gave a brief update on the RSE selection process, namely that the ACEF is still in the process of interviewing RSE candidates, and once that is complete they will begin interviewing for the ISE position. The ACEF expects to provide a recommendation on the RSE by the end of next week.


