
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2009-10-14


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  David Oran  

  Jon Peterson  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Danny McPherson


#### 1.2. Agenda


It was agreed to defer items 4 and 5 to allow more time for the RSE discussion.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The board also decided to use the techchat slot on 4 November as a working session for IETF 76 plenary preparations.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call, but Dow reported that multiple sets of minutes are in the pipeline and will be posted for review shortly.


### 2. IETF 76 Planning


#### 2.1. IAB Schedule at IETF 76


Olaf reviewed the proposed IAB schedule for IETF 76. The week- ahead meeting with the IESG will take place on Sunday afternoon. The group discussed several other potential topics for Sunday; the agenda will be finalized over the next two weeks.


#### 2.2. IETF 76 Plenary


Dave Thaler updated the board on the IETF 76 plenary preparations, and there was another short discussion about possible guest speakers. It this time, it is expected that most of the material will be presented by IAB members (Dave, Stuart, and John).


### 3. Update on ISE Selection


Olaf reviewed the current status of the ISE selection process. He had recently sent mail to IETF-announce with the ISE candidate list. That mail also noted that the IAB had not yet made a decision on the RSE. The ACEF has a number of ISE interviews scheduled, which should be completed in the next several weeks. There were no questions or comments from the board.


### 4. Action Item Review [5 min]


(deferred due to time constraints)


### 5. Document Status [5 min]


(deferred due to time constraints)


### 6. RSE / RFC Editor Next Steps


Olaf summarized the current state, and then walked through the options that had been discussed over the past few weeks. A few variants of possible paths forward were also added to the list.


**EXEC SESSION**


### 7. RSE / RFC Editor Next Steps (continued)


Note: At this point in the meeting John, Lynn, and Ron dropped from the call.


The board entered into a long Executive Session discussion of the pros and cons of the various options for the RSE.


