
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-02-04


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


**PRESENT**


\* Loa Andersson (IAB Liaison to the IESG)


  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Barry Leiba  

  Kurtis Lindqvist  

  Andrew Malis  

  David Oran  

  Dave Thaler  

  Lixia Zhang  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Danny McPherson  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


NOTE: Loa participated in part of the meeting.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF 74 Plenary


Andy reported that three speakers have been confirmed for the panel on MPLS, and that slides will be submitted for IAB review within a few weeks. Andy also requested that IAB members think of some good questions for the speakers and send them to him for consolidation.


### 3. NAT 66


The group engaged in nearly an hour-long discussion of NAT66, led by Dave Thaler and Lixia Zhang. After a recap of the previous NAT66 discussions, particularly the issue of address renumbering, the key question involving end-to-end transparency was raised. “Is translation a part of the IPv6 architecture or not?” That is, do all the components in the IPv6 internet need to accommodate translation, or is it the requirement of the site conducting such translation to do so in a manner that is transparent to outside entities? It was noted that there are different kinds of translation available depending on the particular nature of the problem that NAT is attempting to solve. Without knowing the type it is difficult to assess whether translation should be part of the architecture.


Dave Thaler once again asked the open question of whether PI space is a viable answer – that is, following a path that allows for anyone experiencing renumbering pain to obtain and use PI space. There was no immediate consensus on the answer to this question.


Dave Thaler and Lixia Zhang will organize a follow-up discussion on the topic for the Sunday afternoon meeting at IETF. The board will attempt to submit a draft on the topic ahead of the draft -00 cutoff date.


### 4. Action Items


#### 4.1. Anycast


Dave Oran will take responsibility for next steps on the anycast document, and will coordinate with Danny and the rest of the IAB.


#### 4.2. Infrastructure ENUM


Olaf will be returning to this work item in the next few weeks.


### 5. Document Status


#### 5.1. RFC Streams Headers and Boilerplates


Leslie Daigle is working on the document. The decision of the IAB was to submit the ID to the RFC Editor and proceed with tools development in parallel.


#### 5.2. Principles of Internet Host Configuration


Stuart reported that he is in the process of reviewing version 10, and will have an update by the next IAB call.


#### 5.3. Design Choices When Expanding DNS


No change.


#### 5.4. DNS Synthesis Concerns


No change.


#### 5.5. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


No change.


#### 5.6. Evolution of the IP Model


Dave Thaler reported that revisions to this document have been set as a lower priority due to the NAT66 work.


#### 5.7. IAB IANA Draft


No change.


#### 5.8. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Stuart reported that he is still working on the document and will update the status on the IAB wiki.


#### 5.9. P2P Architecture Document


Gonzalo intends to have a new draft of this document ready within one week.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


At this point in the meeting liaisons dropped from the call.


### 6. IRTF Chair Appointment


The IAB unanimously agreed to appoint Aaron Falk for another term as IRTF chair.


### 7. 3GPP2 Liaison Appointment


Charlie Perkins was selected at the new liaison to 3GPP2. Gonzalo will serve as liaison shepherd.


