
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2009-06-10


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, approval of minutes, administrivia


#### 1.1. Agenda


#### 1.2. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Jon Peterson  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES:**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran  

  Lars Eggert (IESG Liaison to the IAB)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF 75 IAB Schedule


#### 2.1. IAB Schedule at IETF 75


The group reviewed the agenda for the IAB meetings at IETF 75. On Sunday afternoon there will be a joint meeting with the IESG, followed by a regular IAB-only meeting. The joint meeting will include discussions of (i) Asian cultural norms and IETF participation and (ii) the emerging “Internet of things”. The agenda for the IAB meeting is still being developed; several possible topics were discussed.


On Monday morning the IAB will meet with the IESG for their standard “week-ahead” review. Tuesday morning the IAB will have a regular business meeting, and may meet with possible RFC Editor candidates during that time. On Thursday the Board will have a review with one of the IRTF RG’s, likely RRG. Friday will be  

the “week-in-review” summary with the IESG.


#### 2.2. IETF 75 Technical Plenary


There was a short discussion of plenary preparations, and the Board considered an appropriate “due date” for draft slides from speakers. Mark Handley has been confirmed as a second speaker. The plan for the plenary session is to have Barbara van Schewick present an overview of the network neutrality debate, and then Mark will talk about the impact of the network neutrality on IETF protocol development. After the presentations there will be a question and answer session.


### 3. IETF 76 Plenary Topic


The Board considered several potential plenary topics for IETF 76, and decided to develop a talk on character encodings and protocol internationalization. This is a current IAB work area, and the group also felt that it would be a good fit with the IETF 76 venue (Japan). A sub-group of the IAB agreed to begin outlining this session so as to allow early coordination during IETF 75. Dave Thaler, Stuart, John, Vijay, and Olaf will lead the effort over the coming weeks.


### 4. Techchat Queue


The group decided on “TCP and congestion control” as the techchat topic for the 7/1 meeting. Aaron suggested Wes Eddy as a possible guest speaker, as he is familiar with the range of IRTF and IETF work in this area. Lars would also be on the call (since he is IESG liaison to the IAB). Aaron will work with Dave Thaler to arrange a presenter. There was general agreement on the timeliness of this topic given the increased level of activity in recent months (LEDBAT, ICCRG, multi-path TCP, etc.)


As a future techchat topic, Aaron suggested a talk on identity management. This area relates to recent U.S. Government comments on cyber infrastructure, as well as the work Lucy  

Lynch is doing for ISOC.


### 5. Action Item Review


#### 5.1. Anycast


No change in status.


#### 5.2. Discussion on Infrastructure ENUM


Jon Peterson reported that the initial liaison had been sent. Jon has been working Richard Shockey, John Klensin, and Olaf on text for a follow-up liaison. This second message is nearly finalized; Jon will clean up the formatting and send it to the IAB for review.


#### 5.3. Identifiers at the Application Layer


No change in status to this action, though Dave Thaler is in the process of writing a related I-D (see below).


#### 5.4. IDN-TLD considerations


No change in status. Olaf will review John’s notes in the coming weeks.


#### 5.5. UTF-8, IDNA, punycode


This item is related to the Application Layer Identifiers item. Dave’s draft document is under review by the IAB sub-group.


#### 5.6. Will IPv6 break the internet?


No change in status. Andy expects to have a document outline by mid-June.


#### 5.7. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change in status. Dow expects to develop the list of IAB IPv6 targets by mid-June. This action basically refers to the IAB transitioning to IPv6 for conducting its daily business, or at least identifying the areas where transition is not yet possible. The action ties into the IPv6 deployment tracking effort of the IAB.


### 6. Document Status


#### 6.1. RFC Streams Headers and Boilerplates


This document is in the RFC Editor queue.


#### 6.2. RFC Editor Model


Olaf reported that the RFC Editor Model Document is in the I-D repository, and asked if there were any objections to submitting it for publication. John felt that there were still some issues, but that publication should proceed. There were no other objections.


Olaf then stated that the procurement documents had been sent out to various IETF lists and other forums, and could be sent to SIGCOMM (via ISOC). He asked for guidance as to sending the announcements even a bit more broadly (so as not to be perceived as distributing spam). In response, the group discussed the type of individuals who might make a strong candidate for either the RSE or ISE, and whether such a candidate would not have been reached by previous announcements. It was agreed that a good RSE candidate would likely have had fairly recent, or substantial previous, IETF participation. The ISE was seen as a position with a more open set of candidate criteria. As such, it was decided to send the ISE announcement to the SIGCOMM and ISOC forums, and to include in that message a link to the RSE announcement.


#### 6.3. DNS Synthesis Concerns


No change in status. Olaf noted that there was a little discussion in this area on the SSAC list a few weeks ago.


#### 6.4. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


No change in status. Gregory now has the pen on this document, and will distribute an updated draft next week.


#### 6.5. Evolution of the IP Model


No change in status. Dave Thaler intends to have the previous feedback incorporated into a new draft prior to the I-D deadline.


#### 6.6. IAB IANA Draft


No change in status.


#### 6.7. P2P Architectures


Gonzalo will incorporate some recent comments from Dave Thaler and others, and release a new version within the week. This version will be ready for community call for comments.


#### 6.8. IAB Thoughts on IPv6 Network Address Translation


No change in status. Gregory will provide new text next week on the issue of host identification.


#### 6.9. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


No change in status.


#### 6.10. Source Address Finding (SAF) for IPv6 Translation Mechanisms


Dave noted that this document was not intended for the IAB stream, and would likely be channeled via 6AI (if that becomes a working group). The document will be removed from the formal IAB tracking list.


### 7. AOB


#### 7.1. RFC Editor Committee


Olaf stated that before the next IAB call the Board needs to approve the committee who will help with the review of ISE and RSE candidates. He will initiate an email thread on the topic, with the plan for pro-forma agreement at the 6/24 meeting. Discussion will take place on the list between now and then.


#### 7.2. IAB Job Description


The NOMCOM uses an “IAB job description” for identifying and assessing Board candidates. The IAB is in the process of updating this description to better reflect the activities of IAB members. John noted that the current text focuses on internal IAB activities and coordination within the IETF, but that at least some IAB members actively coordinate with external parties as well. There was agreement on this point; John will make the appropriate edits.


The board also discussed the amount of time needed to fully and successfully engage as an IAB member. This question was discussed previously at the IAB retreat, and there is now agreement that the minimum amount of time needed is one full day per regular work week (i.e., not including IETF meetings). Some especially active members, or those with highly overlapping day-job tasks, work on IAB stuff three or more days per week. It previously noted that the IAB chair role constitutes (basically) a full-time job.


#### 7.3. Uncoordinated Protocol Development Considered Harmful


The I-D draft-iab-mpls-tp-uncoord-harmful-00 has been submitted. Once it hits the repository, Olaf will send the message requesting community comments. Russ will send a separate email to Malcolm Johnson to ensure he is aware of publication.


