
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


Wed 2010-08-11


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Ross Callon  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  John Klensin  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Danny McPherson  

  Jon Peterson  

  Andrei Robachevsky  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


There was a short discussion about the volunteers for IAB scribe. Dow is coordinating with them, and expects one or more to be available for the next business meeting.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IAB Document Errata


Danny summarized the current state of errata for the IAB stream. He will review each of the open errata submissions and make an adjudication recommendation to the IAB via the errata tool. The board will conduct a final review at their next meeting.


### 3. IETF 79 Plenary Status


Jon Peterson has been working on a plenary topic covering “The Future of Applications”. As web browsers and their related technologies (e.g., HTML 5, javascript) have become more capable as general purpose software platforms, a trend has emerged where entire applications are often downloaded on demand. This appears to be altering the need for widely-deployed, well-known \*standard\* communications protocols since an app can simply embed whatever functionality is required. There are efficiently implications of this trend, such as running “everything over http”, as well as possible impacts to the IETF model of protocol standardization.


Based on initial discussions there is a fair amount of interest in this topic, both inside and outside the IETF. However, a number of potential speakers have scheduling conflicts with the Beijing meeting. The board discussed the possibility of remote presenters, but it has not run plenaries this way in the past, and so it was agreed that live speakers would be strongly preferred. Jon will continue to work on a speaker list for this topic, but the board will also outline other potential plenary topics for IETF 79.


### 4. Liaison Shepherds and Charters


The IAB has been attempting to better capture information on the motivations, goals, and current state of liaisons relationships with external groups. Danny reminded the board to coordinate with the liaison managers they shepherd.


### 5. New Work Mailing List


The board entered into a discussion of the New Work mailing list, which is used to for coordination between SDOs who may be investigating similar problems or technologies. The list has not had much activity as of late, and the list manager (Loa Andersson) indicated that he would like to hand the role to someone else since he is no longer on the IAB. In recent weeks the board has been discussing next steps, and converged on the need to groom the subscribers list (both I\* and external). Spencer has been looking at the state of the list, and on the call he described the various roles of the individuals who are currently subscribed. This led to a discussion of the expectations of various SDOs regarding confidentiality, controlled access to information posted to the list, and any legal implications of being a list member. It was agreed that clearer guidelines are needed for list membership; Danny, Spencer, Olaf, and John will work to draft a recommendation.


### 6. Action Item Review / Programs Status


#### 6.1 Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


No change in status.


#### 6.2 Privacy Program


Bernard, Hannes, and Jon have begun coordinating a possible IAB workshop on privacy in the December timeframe. They have talked to individuals within ISOC, W3C, and MIT CSAIL, and are looking for a room in either Berkeley or Cambridge. The next step is to identify potential dates, and draft a list of workshop objectives.


#### 6.3 Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler noted that the IDN Encoding draft had been submitted for publication as an RFC. There is follow-on work on canonical forms that is related to this document. John added that the IDNA 2008 documents have now been published.


#### 6.4 IANA Evolution Program


Andrei summarized the meeting that took place on Friday of IETF week, where the project group agreed to draft a framework document that delineates the current policy, operations, architecture, and oversight roles in this space. Marcelo is working on this with Andrei; the goal is to have a document by mid-September.


#### 6.5 SDO Coordination Program


Andrei and Ross have been working on a template for more regular reporting by liaisons. They are starting with the ITU-T liaisons, and have been coordinating with Patrik to assess the kinds of liaison reporting that could be distributed more publicly. Bernard added that the IAB should improve their process for informing WGs chairs about inter-SDO news that is relevant to their WG. It was agreed that SDOs differ in their expectations as to whether liaison information is public or private by default, so liaison managers will need to work with their partner organizations case-by-case.


#### 6.6 IPv6 for IAB Business


No change in status.


#### 6.7 Evaluate Mapping of IAB Website and IAB Communication Processes


Dow reported that this task is still ongoing. A number of pages on the current website have been cleaned up or clarified, and he is investigating options for overhauling and/or migrating the site to some sort of content management system.


### 7. Document Status


Deferred due to time constraints.


### 8. AOB


#### 8.1. e164.arpa Contact Info


There was a recent request by RIPE NCC to change the administrative contact e164.arpa. IANA informed the IAB of this request, and asked for confirmation before making the change. Andrei confirmed that the information is correct. However, several board members raised an objection to IANA’s request for confirmation via a signed letter on official IAB letterhead (for which there is none). It was agreed to clarify this requirement with IANA, and suggest the use of signed email as an alternative verification method.


#### 8.2. SGIP POC


There was a short discussion about who would serve as the IAB contact for Smart Grid liaison activities. Fred Baker is the IETF representative to the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel (SGIP). Dave Oran had been coordinating with Fred for the IAB, but Dave is no longer on the board. As shepherd for the Smart Grid liaison, Ross Callon will take over this role.


#### 8.3. OAM Workshop Announcement


Danny and Ron Bonica have been discussing the announcement text for the upcoming OAM workshop in light of the workshop scope and goals (which have now been clarified). He will coordinate with Ron and bring a final draft to the IAB for review.


#### 8.4. Appeal Notes / J.F.C. Morfin’s note


Glenn reported that J.F.C. Morfin had sent a note to him, Russ and Olaf, copying the IAB and IESG, questioning the publication of the IDNA documents while his appeal was still active. The board discussed the situation, including similar situations that occurred in the past and the current RFC Editor policy of taking direction from the stream owners. Glenn will send a response to J.F.C. via email.


#### 8.5. Nomcom Questions


Deferred due to time constraints.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


At this point in the meeting liaisons dropped from the call. Ross and John Klensin also recused themselves from the appeal discussion.


### 9. IAB Chair Selection


The board had previously discussed changing the selection cycle for IAB chair from March to November. A follow-on discussion was planned during this call, but was deferred due to time constraints.


### 10. J.F.C. Morfin Appeal Response


The group continued their deliberation of the J.F.C. Morfin appeal, reviewing the key points of the appeal and moving toward consensus on the IAB response to each point.


