
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-09-29


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Danny McPherson  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

  Vittal Krishnamurthy (IAB Scribe)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Andrei Robachevsky  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


This was an ad-hoc meeting to finalize the topic for the IETF 79 plenary.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Olaf and Dow mentioned the experiment with using WordPress as a platform for the IAB public website, and encouraged IAB members to look at the sample template. There was a short discussion about individual IAB members posting content to the site – a key goal of transferring to a content management system. There was consensus that material on the public IAB site should continue to be representative of \*board\* positions and activities, rather than opinions of individual members (even if the material is posted by individual IAB members).


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Plenary Topic for IETF 79


At their last meeting the IAB decided to move the “Future of Applications” plenary to a later IETF meeting due to schedule conflicts with key speakers. Over the past week two other topics were considered: IETF and the Research Community, and IPv6 Deployment and Operational Considerations. Hannes looked into the first topic, and noted that it would be good to develop it with Henning Schulzrinne, since he has been working in this area. Unfortunately, Henning is not available for IETF 79. It was also agreed that this topic would take some time to put together for the session to be effective.


Danny investigated the IPv6 topic, and was able to identify an initial list of speakers with IPv6 deployment and operations experience. Several of these were from Chinese organizations, due in part to the relatively widespread adoption of IPv6 in China. The board considered this to be a strongly positive factor given that the meeting will be held in Beijing, and decided to finalize the IPv6 topic. Several board members expressed a preference for a session that covered both ISP and content provider aspects, with a focus on architectural issues facing IPv6 deployment and use. Danny agreed to refine the structure and goals of the session, confirm panelists, and report back to the IAB. John Klensin will assist.


