
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-07-14


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

   Marcelo Bagnulo  

   Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

   Ross Callon  

   Vijay Gill  

   John Klensin  

   Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

   Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

   Jon Peterson  

   Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

   Dave Thaler  

   Hannes Tschofenig  

**APOLOGIES**  

   Bernard Aboba  

   Spencer Dawkins  

   Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

   Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

   Danny McPherson  

   Andrei Robachevsky  

   Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call. Olaf expressed concern that the board is behind in publishing minutes, and noted that an approach to spread the load a bit may be needed.


### 2. IETF 78 Schedule


#### 2.1. IAB Agenda at IETF 78


Olaf reviewed the IAB schedule for the upcoming IETF meeting. There is a breakout room set aside for ad-hoc meetings on Saturday. At the joint IAB-IESG meeting on Sunday Glenn will give an update on the RFC Editor status. Also on Sunday the board will spend some time on the activity plan, including concrete steps in planning activities for the coming year. At the Sunday dinner Fred Baker will join the group for a discussion of the Smart Grid activities. Tuesday morning will be a regular business meeting, with agenda items TBD. On Thursday Aaron will organize an IRTF topic, and Friday will be the usual week-in-review meeting with the IESG. There were no major changes to the agenda suggested.


#### 2.2. IETF 78 Plenary


Vijay reported that all four speakers have submitted their abstracts, and that he is working on getting their draft slides. The plan is to arrange lunch with the presenters the day of the plenary to coordinate any final details. The abstracts will be sent out to the IETF mailing list ahead of time in order to solicit questions. There was agreement by the board that this should help to generate meaningful questions and responses. Some of the current abstracts are large, so they will need to be summarized further (with the authors) before sending out. This should occur in the next few days.


### 3. Activity Plan


Olaf had previously mailed out an updated draft of the activity plan, and he noted that it is still in need of further revision and comment. He would like to have the plan finished by the Sunday of IETF in order to solicit feedback from the larger IETF community. He stressed the importance of the plan for driving IAB work, and the structure of programs and initiatives for maintaining continuity over changes in IAB membership. He asked all board members to review the draft and provide comments.


The discussion then turned to the topic of authorship of IAB documents, and how to handle IAB documents that span multiple board tenures. This question is relevant to the NAT document, which is currently in the RFC editor’s queue, but was written and approved for publication by the previous IAB. There was agreement to move ahead with the NAT document.


Dave Thaler reported that he had submitted an update to the IDN document on Monday that includes all of the comments received. He did not send this last revision for explicit IAB review due to the ID deadline, but felt that nothing in this revision would be controversial. He noted that there is an issue with respect to APIs – i.e. whether to use existing ones, or propose that people should use a new one. He added some text related to this question. Most of the other changes were editorial in nature. The goal is to complete a final IAB review and then submit the document for publication as an RFC during IETF week. The board added this item to the agenda for the Tuesday breakfast meeting in Maastricht.


### 4. Nomcom Job Description


Spencer revised the draft job description to address some comments, but others are not yet reflected in the text. Further discussion of this item was deferred due to Spencer’s schedule conflict for this call, but the IAB will need to return to this no later than IETF week in order to get the info to the Nomcom.


### 5. Report on “Future Internet” Meeting


Hannes summarized a recent European meeting on the topic of the future Internet. The European Commission (EC) has a program called Digital Europe, where they are attempting to encourage greater broadband connectivity and new applications over broadband. There is funding involved for research initiatives, but the research projects differ in the assumptions upon which the work is based. Often the impact of these projects on the operational Internet is limited. During discussions at the meeting several groups came to realize that it might be beneficial to talk with the IETF and/or IAB. There is also a project called the Internet of Things, though at present this effort has a strong focus on RFID sensors. It was agreed that whenever IAB and IETF leadership get involved in these sorts of discussions, it is important to be clear to what extent one is participating as an IAB (or I\*) member vs. as an individual. The board will consider any related next steps at their next meeting.


### 6. IETF as an SDO / Next Steps wrt Emergency Services


Ross had sent out a draft letter addressing the question of “the IETF as a standards body” as it pertains to technology and regulatory requirements. The question came up in the context of the Access Board, which plays a role in the US in determining technology to be used in providing emergency services. He received feedback from John Klensin, and asked the rest of the board for comments.


### 7. Action Item Review


This item was deferred due to time constraints. Olaf noted that the IAB ToDo list is growing and asked members to take a look at it and make some progress prior to Maastricht.


### 8. Document Status


Deferred due to time constraints.


### 9. Short Items (provisional based on time available)


#### 9.1. Liaison Information Gathering


Deferred due to time constraints.


#### 9.2. New Work List


Deferred due to time constraints.


#### 9.3. Datatracker Changes


There was a short discussion of the data tracker document, and members were asked to review it and send comments: draft-hoffman-alt-streams-tracker-01


#### 9.4. Techchat Schedule


Deferred due to time constraints.


#### 9.5. IAB Alumni List


Deferred due to time constraints.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION:**


At this point in the meeting the liaisons dropped from the call. Ross and John Klensin also recused.


### 10. Appeal from J.F.C. Morfin


The board entered into a discussion of the J.F.C. Morfin appeal. Progress was made in deconstructing the key issues, but no final decisions were reached. The IAB will discuss further via email and at their upcoming meeting.


