
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-01-07


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran (IAB liaison to the IESG)  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dave Thaler  

**ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS:**  

  Adiel Akpogan (AfriNIC)  

  Raul Echeberria (LACNIC, NRO Secretary)  

  Axel Pawlik (RIPE NCC, NRO Chairman)


#### 1.2. Agenda


The only agenda item for this call was a discussion with the Number Resource Organization (NRO) about the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Discussion of Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)


The IAB had previously distributed their draft statement on RPKI to the NRO, and the group spent about an hour discussing the IAB text and position. Major elements of discussion were the use of a single root in the certification hierarchy and the alignment of RPKI resources with the existing number allocation model. Raul summarized the NRO point of view, and the position of different RIR customers and stakeholders. The group then discussed the role of the IANA function.


The IAB will finalize the text of their statement in the coming weeks, and thanked the NRO for their constructive comments.


Editor’s note: The IAB RPKI statement is now available here: <http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg07028.html>


