
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-09-01


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Danny McPherson  

  Andrei Robachevsky  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

  Hassan Zaheer (IAB Scribe)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

**ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS:**  

  Lucy Lynch (ISOC)  

  Matt Ford (ISOC)  

  Leslie Daigle


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


There was one set of draft minutes posted for review, but the board decided to conduct an editing pass prior to approval.


### 2. Techchat with ISOC


Leslie Daigle led the group consisting of IAB members and ISOC staff in a discussion of ISOC technical initiatives, and how they relate to other activities of the IAB and IETF. Leslie began with a summary of ISOC work in IPv6 education panels and deployment initiatives. They have been prompting content providers to add IPv6 services, at least in a test and evaluation capacity. They have also been working with GSM and wireless industry folks, and how the development of applications on mobile devices could effect the Internet. This led to a discussion of the what exactly defines “Internet Service”, a question that underlies much of the current network neutrality and policy discussions.


The group then moved into the topic of the Internet ecosystem, the set of collaborating organizations that work together to develop, deploy, and manage parts of the Internet and IP resources. Leslie noted the amount of energy in the operational world, in organizations like NANOG, Broadband advisory group, etc. ISOC is considering hosting a Internet technology users conference to help link operators with evolving technology coming out of the IETF (e.g., DNSSEC).


Lucy Lynch then summarized the ISOC work in the user identity space and information cards, as well as related areas of authentication, certificates, federation models, and circle of trust. They have been engaged on the issue of privacy and inline identity management, participating in various initiatives and forums on the topic.


The group then moved into a discussion of areas where the IAB and ISOC could coordinate. There are a number of research initiatives looking at the future of the Internet, some of which appear to be more politically driven than regional. The large number of actors in this area means that there are no single set of goals, and it is often challenging to assess how new technology can or will transition into the operational network. This observation led back to a discussion of IPv6 deployment, how to measure IPv6 deployment (e.g., traffic, DNS records, available content, etc), and the role that ISOC and the IAB might play in this space.


