
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2010-01-13


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Danny McPherson  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  David Oran (IAB liaison to the IESG)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda changes were made.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Olaf drew the board’s attention to two internal process changes for constructing meeting agendas and reviewing documents.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. ISOC BOT Call for Nominations


There was a quick discussion of the draft text for the ISOC Board of Trustees (BoT) Call for Nominations. Olaf will send the email later in the week.


### 3. IETF Plenary Preparations Update


Danny confirmed that Craig Labovitz (Arbor) and Balachander Krishnamurthy (AT&T Reearch) are available to assist with the IETF 77 plenary. Craig will present the Internet Observatory report, and Bala will discuss the related topic of content consolidation and privacy leakage. Danny also noted that the tech report from the observatory work has been submitted as a conference paper, but that some of the data is already publicly available.


Vijay has been coordinating with Hal Varian (Google, UC Berkeley) on the Congestion Economics topic. Hal is interested, and they are working with Marcelo to scope the topic for IETF 78.


### 4. Action Item Review


#### 4.1. Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


Dave Thaler noted that the draft is still progressing, and John added that recent the notes from the IETF IRI Working Group could form the first part of the white-paper. John and Dave will update the action item to distinguish the various parts of this topic.


#### 4.2. IDN-TLD considerations


John said that he had done a series of briefings on this topic over the last few weeks, and that there has been recent interest by the US and EU cyber-security communities. He and Olaf will discuss further to identify any next steps for the IAB.


#### 4.3. UTF-8, IDNA, Punycode, etc.


Dave Thaler will re-organize this item and combine as appropriate with item 4.1.


#### 4.4. IPv6 for IAB Business


Dow took an action to develop a list of targets for transitioning to IPv6 before IETF 77. On a related topic, Stuart noted that Apple corporate had recently rolled out operational IPv6 in their infrastructure, and have a native IPv6 provider. He added that the change had been virtually seamless, and that he now connects to ietf.org over native IPv6.


### 5. Document Status


#### 5.1. IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


No change in status.


#### 5.2. On RFC Streams Headers and Boilerplates


This was published as RFC 5741.


#### 5.3. DNS Synthesis Concerns


No change in status.


#### 5.4. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Gregory indicated that he should have the next draft ready for review by the IAB next week, and that it should address the concerns of Sam Hartman and Nico Williams.


#### 5.5. Evolution of the IP Model


No change in status.


#### 5.6. IAB IANA Draft


Olaf is in the process of re-ordering the contents of the document, and has moved a large fraction of the material to an appendix. He also clarified a few sections, and passed the latest version onto Leslie Daigle and Geoff Huston for review.


#### 5.7. IAB Thoughts on IPv6 Network Address Translation


Dave Thaler is working with Lixia Zhang on a revision.


#### 5.8. Anycast Draft


Danny reported that this document is ready to be submitted as an IAB draft.


#### 5.9. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Stuart talked with Brian Carpenter, and noted that this document is now ready to be submitted as an IAB draft.


### 6. Smart Grid Directorate


Danny asked about the nature of the Smart Grid Directorate, and Russ clarified that the intent of this group is simply to assist with IETF-internal tracking of this work area. Fred Baker will remain the external interface to the Smart Grid, and JP Vasseur for the ZigBee Alliance. Danny asked why this area was getting special attention, and Russ stated that the intent was to ensure that all the relevant IETF Areas had people tracking this, since it is inherently a cross-area activity. There was a concern that a closed directorate would end up providing an accelerated path for Smart Grid related work in the IETF, and Russ noted that there would be an open Smart Grid mailing list where the note well applies.


### 7. .arpa delegations


Olaf drew the board’s attention to draft-jabley-reverse-servers, which is currently last called for Standards Tack, but might be more appropriate as a BCP via the IAB stream. He has prepared an email raising the question, and asked the rest of the IAB to comment by Friday.


### 8. RPKI message / DoC Discussions


The board reviewed the latest draft of the IAB statement on RPKI, and considered several clarifications to the text. Olaf will update the document based on the discussion and send it out to the group.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION:**


At this point in the meeting liaisons dropped from the call.


### 9. RSE Update


Olaf reported that the IETF Administrative Director (IAD), Ray Pelletier, is in negotiations with the RSE candidate. Russ asked how the negotiations were progressing, and Olaf will contact Ray for an update.


### 10. ISE Update


At this point in the meeting Jon Peterson dropped from the call.


The IAB recently received a recommendation for Independent Stream Editor (ISE) from the Ad Hoc Committee for Selection of Editorial Functions (ACEF) as described in RFC 5620. After a short discussion, the IAB unanimously confirmed Nevil Brownlee as ISE pending successful budget negotiation with the IAD.


Editor’s note: The public announcement of Nevil Brownlee as ISE is available here: <http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg07021.html>


### 11. Nomcom IESG Confirmation


At this point in the meeting Jon Peterson re-joined and Russ Housley dropped from the call.


The IAB entered into a long discussion of the IESG slate. No final decisions were reached, and the board agreed to continue deliberations over email. A follow-up meeting was scheduled for 20 January.


