
MinutesIAB Teleconference (Techchat)
------------------------------------


2010-04-14


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba (incoming IAB)  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon (incoming IAB)  

  Spencer Dawkins (incoming IAB)  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  John Klensin


p Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)


  Danny McPherson  

  Jon Peterson  

  Andre Robachevsky (incoming IAB)  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig (incoming IAB)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Vijay Gill  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


p – participated in part of the call


Note: Danny chaired the meeting due to Olaf’s partial conflict.


#### 1.2. Agenda


John asked for a few minutes to discuss T-RSE reporting and coordination.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The group agreed to add Glenn Kowack (T-RSE) to the IAB mailing list and private wiki. A separate mailing list will be created for T-RSE oversight discussions.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Retreat Planning


#### 2.1. Retreat Logistics


Dow updated the group on hotel options for the retreat. Aaron invited everyone to his house in Cambridge for an informal get- together on Monday evening.


#### 2.2. Retreat Agenda


Olaf pointed board members to the draft retreat agenda on the wiki. Time is allotted for discussions of IAB mission and vision, IANA coordination, RFC Editor transition and T-RSE progress, and several technical sessions on architectural topics. Board members were asked to provide a short write-up on IAB mission and vision, and to propose relevant topics for the architecture sessions. These topics will provide a starting point for developing the IAB’s workplan for the coming year.


### 3. IETF 78 Plenary Status


Marcelo reported that Hal Varian is interested and available to participate in the plenary, which will focus on the economics of congestion exposure. The topic was partly motivated by recent work within the IETF (e.g., CONEX). The next step is to refine the scope of the plenary and identify any additional speakers. Hannes added that there are other approaches currently being investigated by operators that are more near-term. The board will consider a follow-up session at IETF 79 focusing on these approaches.


### 4. Liaison Items


#### 4.1. IEEE 802 Liaison


Bernard explained that the two primary reasons for establishing the IEEE 802 liaison were to negotiate RFC 4441 and to handle IEEE correspondence for areas where there is not a more specific liaison in place. RFC 4441 seems to be working well, and the pace of new developments has slowed such that there is now generally time to appoint a liaison to a specific 802 group when needed. As such, Bernard suggested that the IAB need not replace him in the 802 role, but that a new liaison should be established with 802.23. The board agreed; Bernard will look for a candidate to manage the 802.23 liaison.


#### 4.2. T10/T11 Liaison


It was agreed that a formal liaison relationship is not needed at present. The IAB will continue informal coordination with T10/T11.


#### 4.3. OMA Liaison


Vijay will provide a status update on this liaison to the IAB.


#### 4.4. Liaison Shepherds and Charters


There was a short discussion of the liaison shepherding role. The board will identify new shepherds next week for those groups that were previously managed by outgoing IAB members. Shepherds were also asked to capture information about the current liaison relationships on the IAB wiki (so as to preserve IAB corporate memory).


### 5. New Work List


Spencer summarized the current state of the new work list. Right now about 70% of list postings come from the IETF, and 30% from the W3C. Other organizations have not been active on the list as of late. John had previously mentioned some challenges with the list, such as the way some SDOs charge for access to work plans, making list posting tricky to manage. It was agreed that the IAB should send out a note to the SDOs that are currently subscribed, reminding them of the list’s existence and proper use. Spencer and John will draft text.


There are some additional issues that could arise with the managing the list going forward, such as possible ITU-T constraints related to staff interpretations of various treaties. This might be an appropriate agenda topic for the upcoming meeting with ITU-T leadership.


### 6. RFC Editor T-RSE Report


Glenn submitted his 6 week report, and Olaf has been meeting with him periodically (along with Bob Hinden and Ray Pelletier) to track the state of the contract execution. John noted that the IAB had gone to great lengths to allow the T-RSE work to occur in a largely independent manner, with the IAOC involved only if there were problems with the management structure. He asked if these regular meetings were taking an inappropriate form, and if they are to continue, should have a greater IAB presence. Olaf acknowledged the concern, and will talk further with John offline to determine any changes that are needed.


### 7. Action Item Review


Deferred due to time constraints.


### 8. Document Status


Deferred due to time constraints.


