
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-10-13


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ross Callon  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Danny McPherson  

  Andrei Robachevsky  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

  Hassan Zaheer (IAB Scribe)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Vittal Krishnamurthy (IAB Scribe)  

  Jon Peterson


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Olaf set up a template for the new website and he asked the IAB to check it out.


#### 1.4 Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. ICANN and Enhanced Cooperation


Olaf explained that the United Nations is going to host a session on Enhanced Cooperation. Rod Beckstrom (ICANN) was invited as a representative to speak on behalf of the Internet community, and he reached out to Olaf and Russ to inquire about their attendance. The session is part of the World Summit on the Information Society (WISIS) project. Olaf noted that the IAB had sent reports to the UN on two previous occasions. Lynn added that the Enhanced Cooperation approach came out of the summits in Geneva and Tunis. She and Bill Graham are considering whether ISOC will participate in the meeting. A discussion followed about how to make it clear to UN participants that there are numerous cooperating organizations in the I\* and Internet communities that work together, not simply a single technical representative. Lynn and Olaf will coordinate offline with ICANN and the other relevant groups.


### 3. Next steps on “Liaison on Deep Packet Inspection”


The board considered draft text from Patrik Faltstrom for the liaison statement on deep packet inspection, which led to a discussion of the architectural ramifications of such an approach. Jon stated that the IAB needs to clearly delineate the policy enforcement aspects from what application gateways do, but that it might be difficult to explain this fully in the liaison statement. Danny raised the issue of Carrier Grade NAT (CGN) boxes and Application Layer Gateways being used for behavioral advertising. There was general consensus that providers may well invest in infrastructure whose ROI was based on inspection of data within packets or end-user transactions. Dave Thaler asked whether DPI is the right solution for the problem, adding that the problem at hand is not privacy per se, but that the approach has implications on privacy. Andrei suggested that the ‘problem to be solved’ needed clarification, and that the liaison statement should suggest this as the next step. There was also a consideration of possible human rights impacts if the proposed approach were implemented.


Andrei agreed to revise the text and submit it to the IAB for further review.


Editor’s note: The final liaison text is now available here: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/documents/LIAISON/file1149.txt>


### 4. RTC in the Browser


Hannes reported on the recent workshop in Mountain View on Real- Time Communication (RTC) in the web browser. He, Jon, and Bernard attended. Hannes summarized that the capabilities of the browser are increasing all the time, and the HTML 5 + javascript will allow for significantly expanded functionality without requiring plug-ins. Jon expressed the importance of getting the browser developers together with people from the IETF, skype, and others, so that there is some guidance and coordination when this new functionality starts showing up in mozilla, opera, chrome, etc.


Harald has sent a draft of the workshop report, which will serve as a starting point for further discussion. The board will consider an upcoming techchat on this topic, which also ties into the plenary topic that is planned for IETF 80.


### 5. IETF 79 Technical Plenary Update


Danny stated that he is following up with potential panelists for the IPv6 session. He has reached out to individuals in different regions, including trying to get one or more speakers from within China. The plan is to focus the speakers on the challenges and open issues they have faced while deploying IPv6. He will send an update early next week for the IAB to review.


### 6. IAB Schedule for IETF 79


Olaf briefly summarized the IAB schedule at IETF 79. The intention is to once again have an IAB breakout room available on Saturday for members to work on their IAB projects. The technical topic for the joint IAB-IESG session has not yet been finalized. A follow-up to the OAM workshop was suggested. Olaf asked the board to send other ideas as well.


Glenn will give an update on the RFC Editor Model revision on Sunday afternoon, and he is working on documentation for the wider community. Part of the IAB plenary will be devoted to the RFC Editor revision. There was a short discussion of a follow-up meeting with the proponents of the cloud BOF, to try and distill the problem space down to more actionable engineering work. At the Sunday dinner the group will revisit the topic of protocol internationalization. Lynn reminded the group of the joint leadership dinner with the ISOC Board of Trustees (BOT) on Friday evening.


### 7. Techchat for 11/3


Due to the number of people traveling during that week, the board agreed to cancel the techchat for 3 November.


### 8. Status Update on New Work List


Spencer sent a note this morning updating the IESG on the current state of affairs, and he raised the issue of ISOC insurance covering I\* participants of the new-work list. Olaf suggested he sent email to Ray Pelletier (IAD) explaining the issue and scoping out the names of I\* participants. After this he will inform the other SDOs.


Spencer had previously distributed a list of criteria for I\* participation in new-work; there were no objections to this plan by the IAB.


### 9. Privacy Workshop Update


Hannes reported that the deadline for position papers is November 6th. He has been sending out announcements and spreading the word to organizations working in this space. ISOC will get in touch with MIT CSAIL, who is providing the meeting space, to work out any financial issues. Hannes, Jon, and Bernard are still working on how to best structure the workshop – interested board members were invited to join the coordination mailing list.


The workshop will be jointly hosted by the IAB, ISOC, W3C, and MIT CSAIL on 8-9 December 2010.


### 10. Next Steps with the European Commission (EC)


Olaf pointed the board to the discussion on the IAB mailing list. A tentative date has been set for December 14th, and it looks like it will be a high-level coordination meeting. He will set up a smaller teleconference to prepare further.


### 11. Action Item Review / Programs Status


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints.


### 12. Document Status


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


### 13. Appeal Responses and IAB Member Recusal


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints.


