
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2010-05-12


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Danny McPherson  

  Andre Robachevsky  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


The IAB encoding draft and OMA liaison items were added to the agenda. Further discussion of liaison shepherds was deferred until the retreat.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Retreat Planning


#### 2.1. Retreat Logistics


There was a short discussion of retreat dining plans.


#### 2.2. Retreat Agenda


Olaf summarized the revised agenda for the retreat. There are two larger topics (privacy, internationalization) and two smaller topics (loc-id split, power aware protocol design) planned for the technical sessions. The board also agreed to invite the Harvard grad student studying IETF organizational behaviors to give a short talk.


### 3. IETF 78 Plenary Status


Vijay reported that he and Marcelo met with Hal Varian, and had sent out meeting notes to the IAB list. They also received a positive response from Bob Briscoe, and were waiting to hear back from Scott Shenker. He expected the overall session should be well defined by the next IAB meeting.


On a related topic, Olaf noted that there was a small possibility of getting Commissioner Kroes from the EU to visit the meeting, in which case the IAB would make a part of the plenary session available for her. He expected to hear back from her office in the next few weeks.


### 4. OMA Liaison


Dean Willis is stepping down as OMA liaison, triggering the board to review the current state of the liaison relationship. Based on input from Hannes, Spencer, and others, the board agreed that it would be beneficial to continue the formal relation with OMA due to ongoing work of mutual interest (message abuse, location protocols, etc.) Barry Lieba had recommended Murray Kucherawy (co-chair of Message Abuse Reporting Format (marf) WG) to manage the liaison going forward; there was agreement that Murray would be a good candidate. Hannes will contact Murray, and will take over the IAB shepherding role from Vijay.


### 5. CONEX


Marcelo explained that there had been two BOFs on congestion exposure (CONEX), and that this area of work is highly relevant to the IAB plenaries on network neutrality and congestion economics. There has now been a proposal to enable a set of CONEX experiments following an approach similar to that used by HIP. There was consensus for the IAB to express support for this experiment to the IESG. Marcelo will draft a message. Hannes then noted that there are other nearer-term approaches in this area; he will write a summary for the IAB.


### 6. AUTHMECH Document


Bernard summarized comments from the security area directors Tim Polk and Sean Turner, and he agreed with many of their recommendations, including a need to significantly re-organize the material (and possibly split the draft into two separate docs). The first half is primarily focused on the history of this area, and though it is reasonably complete, it was not clear to the board that this should be or need be an IAB document. There was general agreement that the second half of the draft, which provides recommendations, would require significant new material to get it to a relevant and publishable state. After further discussion, there was board consensus to drop the AUTHMECH document from the IAB document stack. The IAB will thank the authors for their long work on this document, and suggest they continue work (if desired) on the historical material via the Independent stream.


### 7. Expiration impending: draft-iab-idn-encoding


Dave Thaler has been updating the IDN Encoding draft, and intends to upload it to the repository tomorrow. He asked for any final comments from the IAB, and suggested that this version is likely ready for IAB sign-off and then a community call for comments.


### 8. IN-ADDR background


Olaf described that IN-ADDR.ARPA is currently being operated by ARIN and that there are plans in development to move the function under IANA. He had recently discussed the move with John Curran (ARIN President), and the board discussed coordination that might be needed with ARIN and IANA in order to properly structure the transfer.


### 9. Transitional RFC Series Editor Report


Glenn summarized his upcoming T-RSE report #2. The effort is on course, and it is becoming clearer what elements are in and out of scope for the (i) T-RSE effort and the (ii) eventual RSE position. He is continuing with community engagement and information gathering, and will be providing a more substantive update at the IAB retreat. He also noted that he will begin sitting in on the IESG meetings.


### 10. Action Item Review


#### 10.1. Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


This action ties into the encoding technical topic at the retreat.


#### 10.2. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change.


#### 10.3. Evaluate Mapping of IAB Website and IAB Communication Processes


No change.


### 11. Document Status


#### 11.1. IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


This document was discussed earlier in the meeting (agenda item 7).


#### 11.2. DNS Synthesis Concerns


Olaf indicated that he did not have time to push this document forward, and he asked if someone else wanted to take it over or if the IAB should drop it. Dave Thaler noted that it would still be good to pursue, given draft-livingood-dns-redirect. Dave, Hannes, and Olaf will meet offline to determine next steps.


#### 11.3. A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


This document was discussed earlier in the meeting (agenda item 6).


#### 11.4. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Bernard is taking over this document from Stuart, and intends to address the outstanding comments by the next IAB meeting.


#### 11.5. Evolution of the IP Model


No change.


#### 11.6. IAB IANA Draft


This topic will be discussed at the IAB retreat, after which the draft will be revised.


#### 11.7. IAB Thoughts on IPv6 Network Address Translation


This draft is in the RFC Editor queue.


#### 11.8. Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast


There was agreement that this draft is important and appropriate for the IAB stream, but that further work is needed.


