
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2010-03-03


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Spencer Dawkins (incoming IAB)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig (incoming IAB)  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Bernard Aboba (incoming IAB)  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon (incoming IAB)  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Andy Malis  

  Jon Peterson  

  Andre Robachevsky (incoming IAB)  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.2. Agenda


This was an informal IAB meeting to discuss the three topics below. Danny McPherson chaired this meeting.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during the call.


### 2. Reserved Names in the DNS


Danny summarized the current state of the draft, and noted some possible political sensitivities related to the IANA / ICANN relationship. The draft has been circulated on IETF, IAB, and IANA mailing lists. Stuart noted that the questions of a new directory of special names, and the specific example of .local as one of these names, are somewhat separable, but that the current text combines the two. The group then discussed the possible policies for adding new names into the reserved words registry. There was general agreement that the IAB should draft three documents: a description of the reserved names registry, a revised document to add .local to this registry, and a liaison statement informing ICANN of the registry’s creation. Stuart, Olaf, and Russ hold the pen.


### 3. Anycast Draft


Danny reported that he had received additional feedback from Dave Thaler and will revise the text prior to the next IAB call. He will also circulate draft text covering multiple IP addresses.


### 4. Open Discussion on IAB Techchat Topics


The board then considered potential topics for upcoming techchats, as well as some ways of making techchats more effective, and the different factors to consider when prioritizing topics. Current suggestions included M2M, cloud computing, privacy and identity management, and emerging sub-topics related to the Internet of Things. The group ended the call with a short discussion of the upcoming plenary on privacy.


