
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2010-03-10


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba (incoming IAB)  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)


p Ross Callon (incoming IAB)


  Stuart Cheshire  

  Spencer Dawkins (incoming IAB)


p Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)


  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz


p Danny McPherson


  Jon Peterson  

  Andre Robachevsky (incoming IAB)  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Andy Malis  

  David Oran (IAB Liaison to the IESG)  

  Hannes Tschofenig (incoming IAB)


p – participated in part of the meeting.


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Given the upcoming change in IAB membership, Dow will set up a poll to determine a recurring meeting day/time for IAB telechats.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call, but Dow noted that a number of minutes will be ready for publication prior to the IETF meeting.


### 2. IETF 77


#### 2.1. Plenary Preparations


Bala’s slides had been previously distributed for review, and the group agreed that it would be beneficial, though not critical, to draw additional links between the presentation material and work in the IETF. Bernard noted that IETF does tend to pay more attention to privacy issues than other SDOs, and Russ agreed, citing geopriv as an example. This led to a short discussion of possible future work in the IAB-SDO liaison space related to privacy; the group will consider the topic further when developing their workplan for the coming year. Danny reported that Craig is updating the statistics in his slide set, which will be available for IAB review soon.


#### 2.2. IAB Schedule at IETF 77


Olaf briefly reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 77. There will be a discussion of IAB charter, scope, and tasks, as well as a session on IAB / ICANN relationship and history. The board will also need to confirm an IAB chair and select a trustee for the ISOC board. On Thursday the IAB will meet with the Scalable Adaptive Multicast Research Group.


#### 2.3. BOF Coverage


There had been some previous discussion about BOF feedback, and how IAB inputs are taken into account by the IESG when chartering (or not) new working groups. It was decided to continue with the current process whereby one or more IAB members will participate in each BOF and provide feedback to the relevant area directors and the rest of the IAB.


### 3. .local


Olaf will coordinate with Stuart offline to determine next steps.


### 4. Unicode Consortium


There was some confusion surrounding a recent note on this topic from Lisa Dusseault, and board agreed to consult with Lisa and Patrik Faltstrom on the matter. Olaf, John, and Dave Thaler took the action.


### 5. UN Response on Enhanced Cooperation


Dow reported that he and Andrei were almost finished with the updated draft, and that he would send it out for review in the next day or so.


Editor’s note: This document is now available here: [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence/2010-03-15-IETF-response-UN-enhanced-cooperation-v2.pdf](/documents/correspondence/2010-03-15-IETF-response-UN-enhanced-cooperation-v2.pdf)


### 6. IAB Retreat


There was a short discussion of the date and location of the IAB retreat. So far it has been difficult to find date that works for everyone. Dow will extend the poll to include additional options.


### 7. Action Item Review


#### 7.1. Identifiers at the Application Layer


No change.


#### 7.2. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change.


### 8. Document Status


#### 8.1 IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


Dave Thaler will ask either Patrik Faltstrom or Rob Austein to review the document’s history section for accuracy and completeness.


#### 8.2 DNS Synthesis Concerns


Olaf reported that this document was still deferred due to other higher-priority items. Dave Thaler suggested the topic might see renewed interest due to draft-livingood-dns-redirect.


#### 8.3 A survey of Authentication Mechanisms


Gregory summarized the state of the document. Consensus / compromise reached for all open issues in issue tracker, and current text reflects that. Gregory suggested final check by a few IAB members, given that the document has been in IAB for several years, and may not have been reviewed by others recently. Otherwise, ready to go. IAB decided further attention from Board was needed. Some believe notable revisions would be needed to retain its relevance. The board will revist this document during IETF week.


#### 8.4 Evolution of the IP Model


Dave intends to complete the updates to this document prior to the IETF meeting.


#### 8.5 IAB IANA Draft


Danny stated that this document is almost ready to publish, and asked the IAB for a final review.


#### 8.6 IAB Thoughts on IPv6 Network Address Translation


Dave Thaler, Lixia Zhang, and Gregory Lebovitz have been working on this document, and the latest draft addresses comments from Dave Oran and John Klensin. It also has a small amount of new, but important, text related to applications and end-to-end communication. The group will try to wrap this up by the beginning of IETF week.


#### 8.7 Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast


This draft needs a bit more review, and has a few sections that are not yet complete.


#### 8.8 Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Bernard agreed to take over tracking of this document from Stuart.


### 9. Signing .arpa


Olaf summarized the upcoming plans to sign .arpa, and the board discussed possible announcements and/or coordination that might be needed with IANA / ICANN.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


Note: At this point in the meeting the board entered into a modified executive session to discuss the upcoming selection of an IAB chair. Olaf recused himself from this agenda item.


### 10. Discussion of IAB Chair Selection


The board reviewed the current activities of the IAB, the role of the IAB chair, and the traits necessary to effectively execute the chair role. The discussion then moved into the more general topic of board efficiency and communication with the larger community. Olaf had indicated previously that he would be willing to serve as chair for one more year. Other board members who would like to be considered as a candidate for IAB chair were asked to make their interests known prior to IETF week. The board will officially confirm the incoming chair during their Sunday meeting at IETF 77.


