
Minutes IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2010-12-01


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Bernard Aboba  

  Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

  Ross Callon  

  Spencer Dawkins  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)


p Danny McPherson


  Jon Peterson  

  Andrei Robachevsky  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

  Hannes Tschofenig  

  p – participated in part of the meeting.  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  Hassan Zaheer (IAB Scribe)  

  Vittal Krishnamurthy (IAB Scribe)


#### 1.2. Agenda


John suggested a short discussion about the upcoming workshop and press coverage or press releases from the various organizations.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The group briefly discussed the new version of webex being used for the call – both the updated features, and how it provided a good example of the trend toward software updates on-the-fly (which is related to the upcoming plenary on the future of applications and the impact on standardization).


Dow noted that mailing lists had been set up for the board to coordinate on two potential workshop topics: Internet of Things and Web Security.


#### 1.4 Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. United Nations Meeting and Enhanced Cooperation


Olaf and Lynn reported that the IAB will not be participating directly in the upcoming UN meeting, but that ISOC will participate and can represent the IAB and the IETF. This has been communicated to and accepted by the UN organizers. Lynn noted that the speaker list for the meeting is still being finalized, and that the NRO had also requested a speaking slot.


ISOC will submit a written statement, and then either summarize or add to that statement during the meeting. The board discussed key elements of the proposed statement, including emphasis on a multi-stakeholder model and the operation of the IETF as an open, transparent, innovative, global organization. Lynn will coordinate with the IAB to ensure any other key points are included. Bill Graham will attend the meeting for ISOC.


### 3. ICANN Items


#### 3.1. ICANN TLG


The ICANN Board recently commissioned a review of the effectiveness of ICANN Committees, and the IAB has been working on input to that review process. Two main points from the IAB are (i) whether it makes sense to abolish the ICANN TLG, and (ii) how to ensure the ICANN board has sufficient technical expertise among its members. This second concern is especially important in cases where ICANN may make policy decisions with the potential to affect the overall stability of the Internet. A discussion followed where the IAB considered different approaches for coordinating with ICANN going forward if the TLG is terminated. Olaf sent a draft message for the rest of the IAB to review.


#### 3.2. ICANN Liaison


Based on the discussion in agenda item 3.1., it was agreed that the IAB needs to refine the vision for future ICANN coordination prior to engaging further with the ICANN liaison. Olaf and John will work on the draft, and bring Thomas Narten (ICANN Liaison) into the discussion at a later date.


### 4. Meeting with European Commission on 14 December 2010


#### 4.1. Logistics


Members of the IAB and IESG will meet with representatives of the European Commission’s Directorate INFSO (Information, Society, and Media) on 14 December in Brussels. The primary goal of the meeting is to conduct some initial information sharing, and to establish a high-level informal communication channel between the organizations.


The IETF and IAB will describe the Internet Architecture, including those characteristics of the architecture that are particularly important in fostering innovation. They will also summarize the working methods of the IETF, as the SDO responsible for Internet protocols. EC INFSO staff will summarize how EU projects work, and will introduce the Digital Agenda Europe, a program for open platforms and standards for web based applications and services.


#### 4.2. Agenda and Presentations


There was a short discussion of the topics to be presented at the meeting. Olaf will open with a presentation on architecture, focusing on how permission-free attachment of endpoints and the layered design allows for rapid innovation. Russ will describe the structure and working methods of the IETF, and an IESG member (TBD) will walk through how a technical proposal becomes a standard in the IETF.


Members of the IAB provided input to the draft presentations, and several offered to send material from similar (previous) talks. Hannes will coordinate with the IESG to confirm a third speaker.


### 5. IAOC Appointment Update


The IAB now has several candidates for the IAOC position. There was a short discussion of the candidate questionnaire. Olaf will work with John and Spencer to finalize the text and then send it out.


### 6. Appeal Responses and IAB Member Recusal


Dow had sent email summarizing the major points of this issue and the different suggestions for how a recused member could review the \*general\* IAB recommendations arising from an appeal response (i.e. not specific to the particular appeal at hand). John had provided some feedback, and warned the IAB not to get trapped into thinking of this process as a judicial proceeding. He noted that RFC 2026 establishes constraints which make a judicial model less appropriate, and emphasized that the goal of appeal proceedings should be finding a way forward on the issue and bringing the community together. After a short discussion, Olaf asked IAB members to provide additional feedback on the mailing list.


### 7. Planning for RFC Editor


Glenn reported that the motivations document will be a few days late due to his recent illness. Progress on the document is good; he expects it will be about 7-9 pages. He noted that there had been a shift in the mailing list discussion over the last few days, and that the dialogue has grown more constructive in terms of recommendations for the v3 overview. Olaf stated that after the motivations document is published, and the community has a chance to review and comment on the rationale for various design decisions in the model, the IAB will need to make a decision informed by the community dialogue. He once again asked board members to engage in the discussion on the rfc-interest mailing list.


The board reserved a meeting slot on 15 December to try and make progress toward a decision. John noted that without a decision by the 15th the current schedule would be in serious jeopardy.


### 8. Action Item Review / Programs Status


#### 8.1. Identifiers at the Applications Layer – DNS, URI/IRI, URN, Keywords, email addresses, etc.


It was agreed to track this work area as part of item 8.3 below.


#### 8.2. Privacy Program


Hannes reported that the agenda for the upcoming Privacy Workshop is coming together, and that there is a call later this week to finalize it. So far there are about 60 registered participants, which is more than was originally planned so they are investigating whether the planned space is sufficient or if the participant list will need to be groomed. There is agreement among the organizing bodies not to publish a pre-workshop press release or to allow press into the workshop itself. Procedures for approving a post workshop press release are being discussed.


Bernard noted that in addition to the workshop preparations there is a Privacy Considerations draft in the works. Olaf asked Hannes and Bernard to update the Privacy Program material on the internal wiki.


#### 8.3. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler reported that the Encodings document is in AUTH48, and that the next step is for Dave, Stuart, and John to complete a final review pass. He will contact Stuart on the matter.


Dave also followed up on a previous discussion concerning the other uses of Stringprep, a question that had been raised in the PRECIS WG. He is working with them to develop a questionnaire that WG participants can use when surveying protocols, in order to document how they are using Stringprep.


John then noted the discussion of internationalization policy that has come up in the IRI WG. That WG appears to be getting closer to a set of actionable tasks. Dave noted that he, John, and Stuart were all involved in that discussion, and John added that the meeting in Beijing had gone well. It was suggested that there may be one or more issues related to protocol internationalization to be raised at the upcoming UN meeting. The IAB and ISOC will keep this topic in mind while preparing remarks.


#### 8.4. IANA Evolution Program


Andrei and Olaf have been working on the IANA draft, and Andrei noted that it is now time for another review by the program participants. There was a brief discussion of possible next steps by the US congress that could affect the model going forward. Olaf will send out an update to the group.


#### 8.5. SDO Coordination Program


Andrei reported that they have created a wiki to track this work, and that he has been coordinating with Patrik on how to better structure the various relations and associated reporting.


#### 8.6. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change in status.


#### 8.7. Evaluate Mapping of IAB Website and IAB Communication Processes


This action item will be addressed by the forthcoming move of the IAB website to WordPress. The transfer of content to the new CMS is in progress, with a target to complete the transition by the next IETF meeting.


### 9. Document Status [5 min]


#### 9.1. IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


See item 8.3 above.


#### 9.2. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Olaf stated that this draft is in the community call for comments; the deadline is 11 December. There has been some feedback so far, so a revised draft is likely once the comment period closes.


Bernard has asked commenters for proposed text, and will be tracking everything in the tracker tool. Danny plans to provide comments, and Ross added that he thought it was a pretty good document.


#### 9.3. Evolution of the IP Model


The IAB agreed that this document is ready for a community call for comments.


#### 9.4. IAB IANA Draft


Olaf and Danny had last worked on this draft, and summarized the current state. Andrei noted that there is some overlap with the IANA framework document, and offered to review the draft from this perspective. Danny and Andrei will incorporate John’s feedback and raise the remaining issues with the IANA sub-group of the IAB.


#### 9.5. Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast


Danny noted that the last comments he received were from Marcelo and Dave. He will confirm that those issues have been addressed and then send out a revised draft to the IAB.


### 10. Press Coverage of the Privacy Workshop


This topic was partly discussed in item 8.2, and the board agreed with the decision to publish only a post-workshop press release. Spencer asked about a workshop report, and Hannes stated that there would be a report but that the exact development plan had not yet been determined. Olaf suggested establishing a rough timeline in advance of the workshop, so that participants would know when their review would be needed. Hannes will work with Jon on a plan; he added that Karen Sollins (MIT CSAIL) will have two students acting as scribes, and that they will likely help with the report.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION:**


### 10. ICANN Liaison and Coordination


This agenda item was deferred due to time constraints.


