
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-02-03


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Vijay Gill  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Andy Malis  

  Danny McPherson  

  Jon Peterson  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  David Oran (IAB liaison to the IESG)  

  Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)


NOTE: Liaisons and the IETF Chair do not participate in IESG slate confirmation.


#### 1.2. Agenda


The only substantive agenda item for this meeting was the EXECUTIVE SESSION discussion of the Nomcom IESG slate.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


### 2. IESG Slate Confirmation


The IAB had received feedback from the Nomcom in response to the questions that were previously raised. On this call, the IAB engaged in a long discussion of the Nomcom response, and the IESG slate overall.


After significant deliberation, the board confirmed individual AD candidates, and agreed to take the overall slate confirmation to the mailing list. There was also consensus to draft feedback to the Nomcom covering two areas of concern.


