
MinutesIAB Teleconference
-------------------------


2010-02-10


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

  Marcelo Bagnulo  

  Gonzalo Camarillo  

  Stuart Cheshire  

  Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

  Vijay Gill  

  Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

  John Klensin  

  Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

  Gregory Lebovitz  

  Danny McPherson  

  David Oran  

  Jon Peterson  

  Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

  Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

  Dave Thaler  

**APOLOGIES**  

  Ron Bonica (IESG Liaison to the IAB)  

  Sandy Ginoza (RFC Editor Liaison)  

  Andy Malis


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Jon reported that the IAB slate and the ISOC slate have been confirmed, and the Nomcom chair may be waiting on the IAB to confirm the IESG slate before making the announcement. Olaf asked Jon to request the IAB slate from the Nomcom so that the IAB can begin transitioning.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. Approvals


#### 2.1. IAB Approval for sink.arpa Reservation


Olaf summarized the request for the reservation of sink.arpa as described in draft-jabley-sink-arpa-03. The document contains an IAB statement, so a formal sign-off by IAB members is needed. John re-iterated that he would prefer to delegate a sub-tree instead of a single name, but that he did not have a serious issue with the existing request. This lead into a discussion of the merits and potential harm of the approach. Stuart asked who the audience was for the draft – is it client software, server software? Dave Thaler raised a similar concern, and the board then discussed some more substantive issues that faced the currently specified approach.


Stuart agreed to draft an email explaining the possible issues, and John will contact Ralph Droms (the associated AD) to maintain the DISCUSS on the document until the questions are resolved.


#### 2.2. IAB Approval of Liaison from IETF to Unicode


There was a short discussion of the revised text in the Unicode liaison, and the board agreed that it is ready to send.


Editor’s note: The liaison correspondence can be found here:


<https://datatracker.ietf.org/documents/LIAISON/file763.txt>


### 3. RPKI Actions


There was final coordination to close out the IAB Statement on the RPKI: correspondence with NRO, sending to the announce list, and posting to the IAB website. A discussion followed where the IAB considered future interaction with IANA on the RPKI topic.


### 4. Informational Items


#### 4.1. Incoming IAB Actions


Olaf suggested that once the incoming IAB is known, the new members would be added to the relevant mailing lists and IAB wiki, to help ease transition prior to the formal IETF 77 turnover. There were no objections.


#### 4.2. ISE and T-RSE status


Olaf noted that the public announcement of Nevil Brownlee’s appointment as ISE went out today, and that he will begin as ISE on February 15th. He also reported that the contract negotiations for the Transitional RSE are still ongoing.


#### 4.3. Next Steps ISOC BoT Selection


Olaf sent out the current candidate list, and there was agreement to cut-off questionnaire responses in about a week. The IAB will plan to make a final BoT selection during the week of IETF 77.


### 5. IETF 77


#### 5.1. IAB Schedule


Olaf summarized the schedule of IAB events at IETF 77, which includes:


Sunday: joint session with IESG; IAB working meeting; meet-and- greet; reception; dinner meeting  

Monday: working meeting on IANA history and role  

Tuesday: IAB business meeting  

Thursday: IRTF RG Review  

Friday: joint session with IESG


The IAB also covers BOFs and regular working groups, and a subset of the IAB participates in various other meetings with the RFC Editor, IAOC, ISOC BoT, and others.


#### 5.2. IETF 77 Plenary Status


Danny asked the board to provide feedback on the correspondence from Craig and Bala. Draft slides will be distributed for review in early March.


### 6. Action Item Review


This agenda item was skipped due to time constraints.


### 7. Document Status


Due to time constraints only the following documents were discussed:


#### 7.1. IAB IANA Draft


Olaf asked the board to review the latest draft and fill in the wiki poll.


#### 7.2. Anycast Draft


Olaf asked the board to review the latest draft and fill in the wiki poll.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


Note: At this point in the meeting Aaron, Russ, and Lynn dropped from the call.


### 8. IESG Slate Confirmation


The IAB confirmed the Nomcom IESG slate. The IAB thanked their Nomcom liaison, Jon Peterson, for the excellent job he has done. Jon will take final IAB comments to the Nomcom chair and inform her of the IAB’s decision.


