
Minutes of the 2011-12-21 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear (present through agenda item 2 only)
* Scott Mansfield (present through agenda item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 17 November 2011 and 7 December 2011 meetings. The minutes of the IETF 82 technical plenary remain under discussion.


### 2. ITU-T update


#### 2.1. Results of SG15 meeting


Scott Mansfield reported back an update from the ITU-T SG15 Plenary Meeting held 5-16 December 2011 in Geneva. Five documents related to MPLS-TP were up for discussion. The most controversial documents, G.8113.1 and G.8113.2, were not approved. G.8113.1 will be considered for approval again at the World Telecommunication Standardization Assembly (WTSA) meeting to be held in November 2012; it is not currently clear which version of the document will go to the WTSA.


G.8113.2 was not approved because China raised an issue about policy and regulatory content, which forced the document back into the traditional approval process. The document was not considered mature enough to approve; it will continue to be revised and will be discussed again at the Interim meeting in June 2012 and the next SG15 plenary in September 2012.


G.8110.1 was approved, but the OAM protocol-specific details were removed to make the document protocol-neutral. G.8121 and G.8151 were both consented to enter the approval process.


#### 2.2. IAB External Liaison role


The board discussed the role of the IAB in liaison relationships. The IAB role has been to form liaison relationships, appoint liaison managers, develop liaison procedures via documents such as RFC 4052, document liaison arrangements in documents such as RFC 3356, 4441, etc. and engage with urgent issues. The board discussed the role of the ITU-T Coordination Program. As with other IAB Programs, the board agreed that the ITU-T Coordination Program would make recommendations, but that policy decisions would be made by the IAB. Currently the ITU-T-liaisons mailing list is being used both for coordination between the ITU-T liaisons as well as the mailing list for the IAB ITU-T Coordination Program. The volume of traffic on the mailing list is high (very high during the recent ITU-T meetings), and this has made it difficult to distinguish emails relating to the IAB oversight role from more routine liaison conversations. Eliot will work with Bernard offline to come up with a plan to reorganize the mailing lists, with one list for the ITU-T Coordination Program focused on issues requiring IAB oversight, and another list for routine liaison activity and tactical matters.


### 3. Liaison Reports


#### 3.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison Written Report–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
December 21, 2011

Topics:
I. MPLS
II. Mapping the Identity Ecosystem Workshop
III. OECD
IV. WIPO
V. OASIS
VI. Privacy presentation to Australian Govt.
VII. Deploy360 Programme

I. MPLS

Consistent with our overall advocacy for open standards, ISOC has been
working hard to support IETF's work on MPLS.  ISOC posted an
announcement that highlights the milestone achieved by the IETF in the
specification of MPLS-TP[1].  At the ITU, Markus Kummer and Sally
Wentworth, led an ISOC delegation to SG15 that included the IETF
Routing Area Directors, the IETF-ITU Liaison coordinator for MPLS and
the IETF-ITU Liaison.  ISOC's role was to support the IETF in the
policy environment of the ITU, particularly as the SG15 discussions
have become increasingly political.  For results of the SG15 meeting,
please see the report from Scott Mansfield.

[1] http://www.internetsociety.org/milestone-achieved-internet-
carrier-network-standards-multiprotocol-label-switching-transport

II. Mapping the Identity Ecosystem Workshop

The Internet Society convened an initial meeting for international
stakeholders in the identity management (IdM) ecosystem in Amsterdam,
December 14-15. Participants included the e-government sector,
education federation operators, privacy and data protection experts,
members from the major standards bodies (W3C, OASIS, ITU, ISO, IETF)
as well as the OpenID Connect developers, legal and regulatory
experts, and a small set of enterprise deployers. This meeting was
conceived as a kick-start for broader discussions within the identity
community on shared issues. A primary goal for the Internet Society is
the establishment of a global forum for collaboration and negotiation
among the IdM stakeholders.

Hannes Tschofenig was in attendance may have additional comments.

III. OECD

WPISP, CISP and WPIE meetings (1-2 December, 5-8 December 2011,
Paris): Christine Runnegar and Nicolas Seidler coordinated the
Internet Technical Advisory Committee's participation, reviewing
documents and preparing interventions. Formal consultation with ITAC
members was conducted prior to the meetings. Christine Runnegar also
participated in the WPISP Privacy VG meeting (30 November) which is
assisting with the review of the OECD Privacy Guidelines.

ISOC also submitted ITAC's written comments on the latest version of
the Draft Council Recommendation on the role of Internet
intermediaries in Advancing Public Policy Objectives.

IV. WIPO

WIPO SCCR (21-25 November 2011, Geneva): Christine Runnegar attended
the 23rd session of the Standing Committee on Copyright and Related
Rights (SCCR). ISOC introduced itself to the committee and made a
short statement regarding its work on Internet-related IPR issues.
ISOC also provided comments on the committee's work regarding
limitations and exceptions for persons of print disabilities,
libraries and archives, drawing from input from the ISOC Disability
and Special Needs Chapter.

V. OASIS

ISOC agreed a membership exchange with OASIS. This will allow ISOC to
more easily and effectively participate in OASIS standards work.

VI. Privacy presentation to Australian Govt.

Christine Runnegar gave a presentation at a legal seminar "What's in
the Clouds?" co-organised by the Australian Government Solicitor,
Queensland Law Society and Crown Law regarding online privacy:
international trends in law and technology which highlighted the work
underway in the IAB, IETF, and W3C.

VII. Deploy360 Programme

The Internet Society Deploy360 Programme is a new initiative aimed to
help organisations with their deployment of IPv6, DNSSEC, and other
standards. Within the coming weeks, we will be publishing this
resource for open use featuring the best available deployment
resources and creating our own to fill any information gaps.  You will
see this programme launched over the coming weeks.

Embargoed until it is publicly launched (expected early January):
http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Written Report–


#### 3.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison Written Report–



```
=================
IAOC Appointment

- The IESG appointed Ole J. Jacobsen for another term on the IAOC.

=================
SDO Coordination

- Many IETFers went to the two-week ITU meeting.  Many thanks to them.

- The CCAMP Working Group sent a liaison to ITU-T SG 15 Q6 and Q12 on
Flexible Grids (http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1117/).

- Two liaisons were received from ITU-T ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11.
One is bound for the MMUSIC WG and the other is bound for the CODEC
WG.

- One liaison was received from the Open Mobile Alliance bound for the
APPSAWG.

=================
Working Groups

Chairs
- iri wg: Marc Blanchet has stepped down as co-chair
```

–End IESG Liaison Written Report–


#### 3.3. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Written Report–



```
The Production Center is about to conclude the year with the second
highest number of RFCs published ever.

The future RSE (Heather Flanagan) and the Acting RSE have touched base
and preparing for a transitional meeting in Amsterdam early January.
Heather is invited to all relevant lists and all meetings and CC-ed on
correspondence.

Otherwise business as usual: there were no significant issues that
needed escalation.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Written Report–


#### 3.4. IRTF Chair


No IRTF Chair report was submitted.


### 4. IANA Evolution Program


The IANA Evolution Program was not discussed because Olaf was unable to join the meeting. Bernard received an acknowledgement email from NTIA indicating that the ICANN Performance evaluation had been received. The evaluation has been posted on the IAB website.


### 5. Document update


#### 5.1. Smart Object Workshop Report


Hannes reported that an update to the Smart Object Workshop Report is forthcoming.


#### 5.2. RFC Editor Model v2


Joel reported that an update on the RFC Editor Model v2 document is forthcoming. Joel plans to send the new revision to the incoming RFC Series Editor for comment once it is posted.


#### 5.3. ISE Model


Bernard will issue a Call for Approval on the ISE Model document; once the document is approved, it will be held for publication until the RFC Editor Model v2 document is ready.


#### 5.4 DNS Filtering/DNSSEC


The board briefly discussed a potential IAB statement on DNS filtering. Richard Barnes has agreed to provide an outline for the statement; Alissa will follow up with Richard and bring this back to the board at a future meeting.


### 6. Browser IDN Policy


Dave Thaler reported that there has been a thread on the IDNABIS mailing list (<http://www.alvestrand.no/mailman/listinfo/idna-update>) started by a browser vendor asking how a browser should display IDNs, as currently popular browsers behave differently. The original message initiated a long thread on the IDNABIS list, and IAB input was invited in one message. After discussion, the board agreed that the topic should be left to the I18N program to make any recommendations if needed. Dave Thaler will send a message to that mailing list.


### 7. Emergency Services Program


Hannes reported that the Emergency Services Program charter text has been widely reviewed. Bernard suggested that the text mention that the Program will take input from groups that have examined the emergency services architecture; Hannes agreed to add that text. The first meeting of the program will be scheduled for January 11, 2012, with an invitation to IETF participants in the FCC Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) and the Emergency Accessibility Advisory Council (EAAC) to provide an update.


### 8. Executive Session


#### 8.1. Executive Director Transition


The Executive Director transition was discussed in an executive session.


#### 8.2. IAB Mailing Lists


The current status of IAB Mailing Lists was discussed in an executive session.


