
Minutes of the 2011-07-24 IAB Meeting, Quebec City, Canada
----------------------------------------------------------


### 
1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford, ISOC (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


#### APOLOGIES


* Danny McPherson


### 
2. Documents Completing Public Comment


Bernard reminded the board that the IETF Note Well applies to the discussion.


#### 2.1 draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2, “RFC Editor Model (Version 2)”


The board reviewed comments received on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2.  There was a brief discussion about the section of the document that refers to the Independent Submissions Editor; Joel will talk to Nevil Brownlee about possibly moving that text to a new separate document.


The board also discussed the responsibilities of the RSE, the RSOC and the IAOC as described in Administrative Implementation section of the the document. The board agreed that further discussion is needed to clarify this. Joel asked the board to review the two emails he sent summarizing the comments received to date before the next discussion.


#### 2.2 draft-iab-extension-recs: Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


The discussion of this document was deferred to a future meeting due to time constraints.


#### 2.3 draft-iab-dns-applications: Architectural Considerations on Application Features in the DNS


The discussion of this document was deferred to a future meeting due to time constraints.


### 3. New Documents


#### 3.1 draft-iab-identifier-comparison: Identifier Comparison


Dave Thaler presented the current version of draft-iab-identifier-comparison to the board. The draft will be discussed in the Security Area Advisory Group meeting later this week.


### 4. All Other Business


Olaf reported that the IANA Evolution team is still working to finalize feedback on the IANA FNOI. The IANA Evolution team will send their recommendation to the board later this week so that the response can be approved by Thursday, 28 July 2011.


