
Minutes 
IAB Teleconference
---------------------------


2011-01-12


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Marcelo Bagnulo  

Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

Ross Callon  

Spencer Dawkins  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

John Klensin  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Jon Peterson  

Andrei Robachevsky  

Dave Thaler  

Hannes Tschofenig  

**APOLOGIES**  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

Danny McPherson  

Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Vittal Krishnamurthy (IAB Scribe)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were reviewed during this call.


### 2. IETF 80 Plenary – Future of Applications


Jon Peterson reported that the plenary preparations are going well. Thus far they have lined up Harald Alvestrand (Google) and Jonathan Rosenberg (Skype) as panel speakers. He and Hannes have also been coordinating with the W3C, and expect them to send a speaker as well (possibly Mark Nottingham, who participated in the workshop at MIT). There were no questions from the group.


### 3. RFC Editor Discussion Update


At this point in the call the board entered into a long discussion of status and next steps for the RFC Series Editor (RSE) and overall evolution of the RFC Editor Model that Glenn has been working on.


After the meeting last week Olaf sent an update to the rfc-interest mailing list, which sparked some additional discussion. There was a sense that the board is converging, but that there are some remaining things to organize. John and Andrei recently sent a second summary, which distinguishes between the ‘big’ and ‘little’ RFC Series Editor approaches. Olaf raised the question of how to converge to an informed decision that involves the community in a meaningful way in a short time period. Russ brought up Paul Hoffman’s alternate proposal, which Olaf characterized as kind of a variant of the ‘little’ RSE model. Dave Thaler asked whether one approach would be more likely to attract qualified candidates.


John and Andrei added that there are several other dimensions to the choice, such as whether there is a single person who is accountable, or whether it is closer to steering by committee. They also stressed that the position needs to be structured so as to be attractive to a quality candidate. As a method to progress toward a decision, Dave suggested constructing a program and associated committee now, who would have the task of completing the RSE document. This committee would consist of a number of people who are committed to read all the relevant inputs, think hard on the problem, and decide on a way forward in a finite and relatively short term basis.


Olaf stated that pointed questions to the rfc-interest list would be very valuable. He will set up a side meeting for those board members willing to take a major role in driving this forward.


### 4. Action Item Review / Programs Status


#### 4.1. Privacy Program


Bernard reported that the minutes from the Privacy Workshop have gone out, and the presentations are posted on the web server. He expected a few corrections to the minutes, which will serve as a primary input to the Workshop Report (to be published as an RFC). He also noted that the privacy directorate has been stood up.


#### 4.2. Internationalization Program


John stated that he and Dave are still waiting for feedback from the rest of the board on the plan that is posted to the internal wiki. They are also finishing up the Encoding draft.


#### 4.3. IANA Evolution Program


Olaf mentioned the upcoming meeting of the I\* chairs, RIR CEOs, Lynn, and a few others. He and the IANA program members are in the process of preparing for that meeting. If it is ready, they intend to take a draft of the IANA Framework draft, which outlines the various roles and responsibilities associated with the protocol parameters. Andrei, Marcelo, John, and others are assisting.


#### 4.4. SDO Coordination Program


The program is still working on a good structure for how to handle liaisons, especially in the wake of the flowstate discussion. Olaf emphasized that the IAB needs to get this group up and running, to find a chair to drive actions and provide continuity.


#### 4.5. IPv6 for IAB Business


No change in status.


### 5. Document Status


#### 5.1. IAB Thoughts on Encodings for Internationalized Domain Names


See agenda item 4.2 above.


#### 5.2. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


There are still some comments coming in on this document that will need to be addressed in a new revision.


#### 5.3. Evolution of the IP Model


Dave Thaler reported that this document has gone out for comments from the community. It also needs a final review from the IAB, since much of the work was completed before the last group of IAB members joined the board.


#### 5.4. IAB IANA Draft


Olaf reported that this document is nearly done, and should be ready for posting soon.


#### 5.5. Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast


No change in status


#### 5.6. Architectural Considerations on Application Features in the DNS


No change in status.


#### 5.7. Privacy Terminology


Hannes has been working on this individual draft, which is expected to be taken up as an IAB document at a later date. He has received a number of comments and is in the process of updating the draft.


### 6. ICANN / liaison next steps


Danny has been working with Olaf, John, and others on this item. Since Danny was not on the call, the topic was deferred to a later meeting.


**EXECUTIVE SESSION**


At this point in the meeting liaisons and ex-offico members dropped from the call.


### 7. IAOC Appointment


The board spent about 40 minutes deliberating on the candidate list, and then voted to appoint Bob Hinden for a two-year term on the IAOC.


### 8. IESG Slate


This topic was deferred until the next meeting due the slate arriving from Nomcom right before the meeting. Discussion will be taken up on the various confidential IAB mailing lists.


