
Minutes of the 2011-11-13 IAB Meeting 
Taipei, Taiwan
-----------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford, ISOC (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


#### GUESTS


* Fred Baker (RSOC Chair)
* Nevil Brownlee (RFC Independent Submissions Editor)
* Paul Hoffman (for agenda section 4 only)
* Christine Runnegar (via remote; for agenda section 4 only)
* Lynn St. Amour


### 2. RSOC Report, Fred Baker


Fred reported that the RSOC is in the final stages of interviewing candidates for the RFC Series Editor position, and that the RSOC plans to recommend a candidate to the IAB by Wednesday, November 16. The finalists are in Taipei this week and have met with the IETF and IAB Chairs, the RFC Production House staff, and the IRTF and ISE stream managers.


Once the IAB confirms the candidate selected by the RSOC, the IAOC will begin contract negotiations.


### 2. RFC Series Documents


#### 2.1. RFC Editor Model – draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2


Joel reported an update on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 is forthcoming.


#### 2.2. ISE Model – draft-iab-ise-model


Nevil reported that draft-iab-ise-model has been updated to incorporate comments received to date, and that no new comments have been received in the last few days. The Call for Comment ends on 26 November 2011; Bernard asked board members to review the document if they have not already done so.


### 3. Workshop Reports


#### 3.1. Smart Object Workshop Report – draft-iab-smart-object-workshop


Hannes reported that draft-iab-smart-object-workshop has been updated to address comments received to date. The document will be on the agenda with a Call for Approval at the IAB Business meeting on 30 November 2011.


### 4. Privacy Program Documents


Alissa called Christine Runnegar to participate remotely in the discussion of the Privacy Program documents. Paul Hoffman was invited to observe the logistics of holding a discussion with remote participants in order to gather information for the IAOC’s Remote Participation Services Specifications Development RFP.


#### 4.1. Privacy Terminology – draft-hansen-privacy-terminology


Hannes reported that version -03 of draft-hansen-privacy-terminology has been posted. The board discussed whether this document is appropriate for publishing on the IAB track, and ultimately gained consensus that it is.


#### 4.2. Privacy Considerations – draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa reported on the current state of draft-iab-privacy-considerations. The board discussed whether inclusion of a privacy considerations section should be left to the discretion of authors or should be an IESG decision. Consensus appeared to be that the IESG should make the decision. Alissa will update the document based on the IAB’s discussion.


