
Minutes of the 2011-09-14 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Ross Callon
* Olaf Kolkman


#### 1.2. Agenda


Three items were added to the agenda:


* Department of Commerce meeting on September 8 (see 8.1)
* Closing of IEEE 802.23 (see 1.3)
* NomCom Liaison Report (see 1.3)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow reminded the board that an additional business meeting has been scheduled for 21 September, and that the meeting to discuss potential BOFs for IETF 82 with the IESG is scheduled for Tuesday, 4 October.


Dow asked the board if there were any extra meetings planned around the IETF 82 dates that would affect travel planning; at this time, the board has no additional meetings are scheduled around IETF 82.


Russ reported via email that IEEE 802.23 has closed. Richard Barnes was the IETF’s established liaison to IEEE 802.23; Dow will update the liaison web pages accordingly and follow up with Richard to thank him for his service.


Dave Thaler reported that there are two weeks left in the NomCom’s nomination period, and that the NomCom may be issuing an additional call for nominations. Dave asked the board members to submit candidates for any of the open positions, as well as to indicate to the nomcom whether they were interested in re-upping.


There was a brief discussion about the NomCom tools. A tools issue reverted the IAB job description to an earlier version, and the Open Nominee List had not yet been posted, but Dave reported that both issues should be resolved within the next 24 hours.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the IETF 81 Technical Plenary and the 10 August 2011 business meeting. Dave Thaler requested more time to review the minutes of the 24 August 2011 business meeting, and the board agreed to wait until the end of the week to approve the 24 August 2011 minutes.


### 2. IETF 82 Plenary: Internet of Things


The board discussed choosing the Internet of Things as the plenary topic for IETF 82. Some board members expressed concern that potential speakers on this topic would not be able to travel to Taipei; Hannes will contact potential speakers to get confirmation of their ability to travel to Taipei and will report back to the board at the next business meeting on 21 September.


The board briefly discussed other potential plenary topics. IPv6 applications and web security were both mentioned as alternate topics if the Internet of Things panel cannot be arranged.


### 3. IRTF Network Complexity Research Group


Lars asked the board for feedback on the proposed charter for the Network Complexity Research Group (NCRG). Some board members had already sent comments via email, and agreed that the research group was worth chartering. Lars will work with Michael Behringer to finalize the NCRG charter.


### 4. Letter to EC on Emergency Services


The board approved the text of the letter to the EC on Emergency Services. Bernard will send the letter to the EC on behalf of the board.


### 5. IAB Program on Emergency Services


Hannes referred the board to an earlier email with a description of a potential IAB Program on Emergency Services. After discussion, the board agreed that this topic is better suited as an IAB Initiative. The board agreed to proceed further with the Initiative. Hannes will circulate the current description to potential non-IAB Initiative Members and to the ISOC and IAB for feedback.


### 6. IAB Program on Securing the Web Infrastructure


The board had previously discussed changing the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative into a Program. Hannes presented text on Securing the Web Infrastructure to be added to the description of the new HTTP/Web Evolution Program. Bernard asked board members to review this text and be prepared to discuss it further at the next board meeting on 21 September 2011.


### 7. Program and Initiative Status


Spencer requested feedback on the proposed members for the Liaison Oversight Program; this discussion will continue via email on the iab-vote list.


Joel reported that the RSOC placed an advertisement for the RFC Series Editor position which resulted in additional applications. The RSOC is currently reviewing the applications and is planning to interview the short list of candidates in late September and early October. The current timeline plans to have the IAOC in final negotiations with the selected candidate by IETF 82.


Joel reported that he is still working on updates to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2. Nevil Brownlee has agreed to write a new draft about the Independent Submissions Editor model, so the existing text on the ISE will be removed from draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2.


The board discussed creating a new private wiki where information on Programs and Initiatives can be posted and accessed both by the IAB and by non-IAB Program/Initiative members. The board agreed that having this would be a good idea, and Dow will follow up on options.


### 8. All Other Business


#### 8.1 Department of Commerce Meeting on September 8


Bernard and Russ met with the Department of Commerce on September 8 to give a tutorial on the IANA functions and answer questions on the board’s response to the IANA FNOI.


The members of the Department of Commerce who attended the meeting seemed appreciative of the visit, and the board hopes that the IAB perspective will be reflected when the Request for Proposal and Statement of Work (SOW) are issued. The board will review the SOW upon its release. The current IANA contract ends in March 2012.


### 9. Liaison to the ICANN Board


The liaison to the ICANN Board was discussed in an executive session. Thomas Narten was re-nominated as IETF liaison to the ICANN BoD. Bernard will notify ICANN of the decision.


