
Minutes of the 2011-08-10 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair) (present through the end of agenda item 8 )
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison) (present through the end of agenda item 8 )


##### APOLOGIES


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Olaf Kolkman
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson


#### 1.2. Agenda


Spencer asked to add an agenda item on the IAB role in BOF shepherding (if time permits).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The board reviewed the the upcoming meeting schedule, and agreed to return to meeting on the first, second and fourth Wednesdays of the month. Upcoming meeting dates are:


* August 24
* September 7
* September 14
* September 28


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 24 July 2011, 26 July 2011 and 28 July 2011 meetings. The minutes of the IETF 81 Technical Plenary remain under review.


### 2. Proposed Letter to EC


Hannes asked the board for feedback on the text for a letter to be sent to the European Commission with a high-level overview of recent IETF activities. Hannes will revise the letter based on the feedback received, and circulate it to the board for another review.


### 3. Open Internet Advisory Committee


The FCC is currently seeking nominations for membership on its Open Internet Advisory Committee (OIAC) [see  

[http://transition.fcc.gov/Daily\_Releases/Daily\_Business/2011/db0630/DA-11-1149A1.pdf](http://transition.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2011/db0630/DA-11-1149A1.pdf "OAIC Call For Nominations")]. The board discussed whether it would be worthwhile to have someone from the IETF community involved in this committee who could report back to the IAB. The board agreed to investigate offline whether anyone from the IETF community was already planning to volunteer, and to discuss this further at the next board meeting on 24 August 2011. Nominations are due by 1 September 2011.


### 4. IETF 82 Plenary Topic


The board discussed potential topics for the IETF 82 Technical Plenary. Hannes suggested a panel on the Internet of Things. Hannes will draft an email to the board outlining a potential structure for this as a plenary topic.


Jon suggested a future plenary topic on OpenFlow or Software-Defined Networking, and the board agreed that this topic could go in the queue for consideration for a plenary after IETF 82.


### 5. Program Confidentiality


The board discussed expectations for confidentiality during Program discussions, particularly in regards to what information non-IAB members of Programs may share with their own organizations.


Spencer, Andrei and Joel will propose guidelines for IAB Program communications, which detail how and when information may be shared with Program members’ outside organizations.


### 6. Program Status


Program Status reports were not discussed due to time constraints.  Bernard asked the Program Leads to submit updates via email.


The board briefly discussed the proposed response to “IESG Thoughts on Liaisons” [[http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/iesg/trac/wiki/LiaisonThoughts](http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/iesg/trac/wiki/LiaisonThoughts "IESG Thoughts on Liaisons")], and agreed that the response was ready to be posted publicly on the IAB website.


### 7. RFC Editor Model v2 Comment Resolution


The board continued their review of feedback received on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2. Joel will update the document again based on these discussions.


Joel reported that the RSOC has received several nominations for the RFC Series Editor position from within the IETF community, and that the RSOC is still soliciting candidates from outside the community.  Interviews are currently in progress, and the current goal is for the RSOC to have a recommendation to the board sometime in October.


### 8. To-Do list


The To-Do list was not discussed due to time constraints.


### 9. All Other Business


The board briefly discussed the proposal for IAB BOF coverage that Spencer sent on 3 August 2011; the discussion will continue by email and at a future IAB teleconference.


### 10. ICANN NomCom


The board discussed the ICANN 2012 NomCom representative in an executive session. Ole Jacobsen was selected.


### 11. ITU Liaisons


The board discussed the ITU Liaisons in an executive session. Scott Manchester was selected as the IETF liaison to ITU-T for MPLS and John Drake was selected as the IETF liaison to ITU-T SG15 for the Optical Control plane.


