
Minutes of the 2011-09-21 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Jon Peterson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Alissa Cooper
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrei Robachevsky


#### 1.2. Agenda


No additional items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 14 September 2011 business meeting. The minutes of the 24 August 2011 and 7 September 2011 business meetings remain under review.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Mat briefly introduced his written report:


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
September 21, 2011

Topics:
I. ISOC Open Forum at IGF 2011
II. ISOC Paper and IGF Workshop on DNS Blocking
III. 2011 "Internet ON!" Meeting
IV. Applied Networking Research Prize
V. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting

I. ISOC Open Forum at IGF 2011

As permitted by IGF guidelines, ISOC will be holding an open forum
meeting at the IGF in Nairobi, focusing on the IETF and open Internet
standards. It will take place on Thursday September 29, 2011. Andrei
Robachevsky will moderate the session, and panelists are Fred Baker,
Patrik Fältström, Jonne Soininen, and Pete Resnick.

II. ISOC Paper and IGF Workshop on DNS Blocking

ISOC has released a paper outlining its position on "DNS Blocking",
which can be found at:
http://www.isoc.org/internet/issues/dns-filtering.shtml. We are
working to translate the paper into the 6 UN languages and those will
be available on this site as well. There will be an ISOC-organized
workshop at the IGF on this topic on September 28, 2011:
http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/component/chronocontact/?chronoformname=Workshops2011View&wspid=124

III. 2011 "Internet ON!" Meeting

On a different continent, the next "Internet ON!" (ION) meeting will
be held as part of the LACNOG meeting in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on
October 5, 2011 -- see http://www.internet-on.org/.

IV. Applied Networking Research Prize (ANRP)

The second call for nominations for the Applied Networking Research
Prize (ANRP) has concluded and winners have been selected. ISOC
expects to have 2 prize winners participating in IETF82 in Taipei.

V. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting

The ISOC Board is holding its next Board meeting on October 22
(afternoon only) and 23rd (all day) 2011 in Dakar, Senegal. The Board
will consider and may approve a three-year Business plan and the
upcoming year's budget at this meeting. ISOC Board meetings are open
and participation is welcome. The agenda will be posted here:
http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/meetings.php
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Sean briefly highlighted a few items from his forthcoming written  

report:


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
SDO Coordination

- The IAB sent a liaison to ITU-T SG 15
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1084/) and ITU TSAG
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1085/) to announce new Scott
Mansfield as liaison manager to the ITU-T for MPLS and John Drake as
liaison manager to ITU-T SG15 for the Optical Control Plane.  Scott
and John replace Stewart Bryant and Adrian Farrel, respectively.

=================
Working Groups

Recharters
- l2vpn (Routing)
- storm (Transport)

Closed
- pmol (Operations and Management)

Chair Changes
MANET
Old - Ian Chakeres (ian.chakeres@gmail.com)
New - Stan Ratliff (sratliff@cisco.com)

=================
Draft of Interest

draft-housley-two-maturity-levels was approved.

Jari's working on the following, which I think will end up an IESG
statement as opposed to an RFC:
http://www.arkko.com/ietf/iesg/discuss-criteria-advancing.txt
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor


Olaf briefly introduced his written report:


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report–



```
Acting RFC Series Editor Report

* Publication House migration to IETF secretariat.

The IETF secretariat has been asked to deliver a plan to the IAOC with
respect to a transition of the RFC Editors IT services to the IETF
secretariat.  The ARSE will get to review this plan.

The move of the IT services is part of the IETF Secretariat Contract
for which an RFP went out earlier this year.

* On Authors, Contributors, Editors, and overload.

Recently we have seen a number of publication request passing by
whereby the 'author limit' was problematic and it was felt by authors,
and members of the IESG, that the level of recognition should be
improved.

After discussion with the Production center staff, the RFC Series
Advisory Group, and the IESG I have updated the policy and shared the
draft policy with the RFC-interest list. I will make an assessment of
the feedback and decide on the policy beginning of october.

This is a situation where precedent was set in order to keep RFCs
flowing. The policy change, or arguably just clarification, was needed
to maintain consistency.

RFC Editor Queue.

To date the Submissions this year have been smaller (288) then the
number of publications (296). Currently the Production Center is
seeing a significant influx of approved documents.

Note worthy is that since February the fraction of documents that were
published within 30 working days (6 weeks) rose from below 10% to more
than 40%).
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison written report–


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Lars reported that the Network Complexity Research Group charter is still under discussion, and that updates to the charter are forthcoming.


Two winners have been selected for the Applied Networking Research Prize. Both papers are on TCP, and both will be presented at IETF 82 in Taipei. The board discussed the schedule for awarding future prizes; Lars and Mat are considering a change to a two-IETF-meeting cycle in order to keep the quality of the submissions high while balancing the workload of the selection committee. The IRSG will discuss this further in Taipei.


### 3. IETF 82 Plenary


Hannes reported on the potential plenary talk on the Internet of Things, and noted that “The Internet of Things” is just a working title for now. The initial plan was to split the session by first having external speakers discuss the requirements from the industrial and control sectors, and then having an internal speaker discuss the architecture; however, the board was concerned that time is running out to find qualified speakers from the industrial and control sectors who would be able to travel to the IETF meeting.


The board agreed to restructure the panel with IETF-internal speakers on Smart Grid, process control, and current problems. Hannes will contact potential panelists to confirm their availability, and the board will discuss this further at the next meeting on 28 September 2011.


### 4. Program / Initiative / Document Reviews


#### 4.1. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler reported that the Internationalization Program continues to monitor various issues that ICANN is working on. The ICANN Variant Issues Project is expected to have drafts ready for review in early October, which the I18N program members should then discuss.


#### 4.2. IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative


Bernard reported that the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative put out a call for external participants and has received a few volunteers so far. The focus of the initiative will be to get conferencing support on IPv6 available in time for the next World IPv6 Day in June 2012. Synergy will be explored with the IAOC RFP/SoW on “Remote Participation Services”.


#### 4.3. HTTP / Web Evolution Initiative


Jon reported that the HTTP / Web Evolution Initiative draft needs to be revised. Hannes will talk to Mark Nottingham about working with the W3C TAG on a potential revision to the HTPP substrate RFC.


#### 4.4. IP Evolution Program


Danny reported that the IP Evolution Program discussed draft-carpenter-referral-ps and agreed that the IAB should foster that work. Danny will follow up with Brian Carpenter as author of that draft. The board agreed to add Brian to the IP Evolution mailing list.


Danny also reported that he is working on edits to draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications and will post the revised draft shortly.


#### 4.5. Privacy Program


Hannes reported that three new non-IAB members have been added to the Privacy Program, all of whom work in data protection authorities. Hannes hopes to have an update on the privacy terminology document later this week. Work is still in progress on the privacy considerations document.


#### 4.6. Liaison Program


Spencer referred the board to the list of proposed Liaison Program members that was previous sent via email. The board agreed to approve those members of the Liaison Program. The board briefly discussed the liaison chart that Andrei is currently updating; Spencer will work with Andrei on further updates to the chart.


#### 4.7. ITU-T Coordination Program


Russ reported that he had been briefed on the SG15 plenary that happened on 16 September 2011.


#### 4.8. IANA Evolution


The board discussed the forthcoming NTIA IANA RFP/SoW. Russ will send an email to Fiona Alexander at NTIA inquiring about contract flexibility with respect to the protocol parameter function.


#### 4.9. RFC Editor Program


Joel reported that the RSOC is still interviewing candidates for the RSE position. Nevil Brownlee has drafted a document on the Independent Submission Editor model (draft-iab-ise-model), which the board plans to progress on the IAB stream.


### 5. Tech Chat on 10/5


The board discussed the agenda for the meeting on 5 October 2011, and tentatively agreed to have a tech chat on personal firewalls. Dave Thaler will work with Stuart Cheshire to develop a potential tech chat on this topic.


### 6. Emergency Services Initiative


Discussion of the charter of an IAB Emergency Services Initiative was deferred to the 28 September 2011 business meeting due to time constraints. Hannes will continue to revise the charter in the meantime.


### 7. Securing the Web Infrastructure


Discussion of a potential initiative on Securing the Web Infrastructure was deferred to the 28 September 2011 business meeting due to time constraints. Hannes will continue to revise the charter in the meantime.


### 8. All Other Business (AOB)


There was no other business, and the meeting was concluded.


