
Minutes of the 2011-06-08 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


**GUESTS**


* Mat Ford [for Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)]


**APOLOGIES**


* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow announced that the new IAB website has gone live, and that user accounts have been set up for all of the Program leads. Dow also announced that email lists have been created for all of the Programs and Initiatives.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 25 May 2011 meeting were approved.


### 2. Approach to BOF write-ups


Spencer sent proposed text describing the IAB BOF shepherd role to the board prior to the start of the meeting. The board agreed that while it would be preferable to have an IAB shepherd for all BOFs, that may not be possible due to time and resource constraints. The board agreed that having an IAB BOF shepherd should be mandatory in cases where the IESG requests it. The discussion of the BOF shepherd role is continuing; Spencer will send updated text to the board via email.


### 3. ARIN Address Proposal


Olaf sent text for a proposed letter to ARIN regarding ARIN Proposal 2011-05 last week. In the meantime, the IESG approved ‘Issues Associated with Designating Additional Private IPv4 Address Space’ (draft-azinger-additional-private-ipv4-space-issues) as an Informational RFC. Bernard asked the board if the text of the letter needed to be revised to acknowledge draft-azinger-additional-private-ipv4-space-issues; after discussion, the board concluded that it did  

not.


However, David Kessens did have other suggested edits to the text of the letter. Olaf and the IANA Evolution team will be asked to review David’s feedback and propose final text for the letter. Once the text has been finalized, the board will approve the letter via email.


### 4. Summary of W3C TAG Call


Jon reported on the conference call held between the IAB and the W3C TAG on 7 June 2011. In particular, the RTCWeb work is of interest to both groups. The W3C has requested a meeting room at IETF 81 for their RTCWeb working group (<http://www.w3.org/2011/04/webrtc-charter.html>) to meet; the IETF community would be invited to attend this meeting, but required to register for it separately. There is a question about whether W3C rules (such as those relating to attendance and IPR) would be in effect for this meeting; those details will need to be worked out.


Jon plans to follow up with Mark Nottingham about further refining the goals for IETF liaison relationship with the W3C.


### 5. Review of RFC Editor Model draft


Joel reported that he has received feedback from the IAOC on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2. After discussion, the board agreed that Joel would update the document to reflect the IAOC comments.  Once the new version is posted to the archive, a solicitation for public comment would be sent out on the rfc-interest and ietf-discuss lists. Joel promised a new version would be available by 17 June 2011.


### 6. Program Status Reports


Dow noted that the new IAB website has pages available for each Program and Initiative to describe their activity. Dow asked the Program and Initiative leads to write up an executive summary of their activity and submit it for posting on the website by 10 June 2011.


#### 6.1. Privacy Program


Alissa reported that she is still working to confirm speakers for the IETF 81 plenary session. A draft of the privacy workshop report will be reviewed by the privacy program next week. Members of the Privacy Program team will be invited to the IAB meeting on 15 June 2011 for the privacy program review.


#### 6.2. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler reported that he has been in discussion with Mat Ford about selecting an ISOC representative for the Internationalization Program.


#### 6.3. RFC Editor Program


Joel reported that the RSOC continues to debate about whether to engage a search firm to find a new RFC Series Editor, but that the outcome of that discussion should not affect the revisions to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2.


#### 6.4. IANA Evolution Program


Bernard reported that the new IANA FNOI is expected out sometime during the week of 13 June 2011.


#### 6.5. SDO Coordination Program


Bernard reported that the SDO Coordination Program team is still planning to meet on the Saturday prior to IETF 81. Spencer and Andrei are preparing for the discussion about the IETF’s top 4 liaison relationships scheduled for an upcoming IAB meeting.


#### 6.6. IP Evolution Initiative


Hannes reported that Jari Arkko is currently reviewing the Smart Objects workshop report, and that he hopes to have this to the board for review by next week.


#### 6.7. DNS Initiative


Jon reported that there were no current updates for the DNS Initiative.


#### 6.8. IPv6 for IAB Business (inc. IPv6 day) Initiative


Bernard wished everyone a happy World IPv6 Day (8 June 2011) and invited them to view ISOC’s summary of the event at <http://www.worldipv6day.org/>.


#### 6.9. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative


Jon reported that the Applications Area Directors are working on setting up the mailing list on the future of applications.


### 7. Action Items


Cindy briefly reviewed the action item list; the most pressing actions were either previously discussed at this meeting, or are scheduled for discussion at an IAB meeting in the coming weeks.


### 8. AOB


Bernard reminded the board that draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2, the ARIN 2011-05 letter and the IANA NOI are the high-priority items for the coming weeks.


### 9. Conclude Call


