
Minutes of the 2011-04-27 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)  

Ross Callon  

Alissa Cooper  

Spencer Dawkins  

Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)  

Joel Halpern  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

David Kessens  

Olaf Kolkman  

Danny McPherson  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)  

Jon Peterson  

Andrei Robachevsky  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler  

Hannes Tschofenig  

Sean Turner


**APOLOGIES**  

Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Hannes confirmed that he will continue to act as liaison to the  

IESG. However, due to scheduling conflicts, Hannes will be unable  

to attend the IESG retreat May 2-3. Olaf and Andrei are  

coordinating their schedules so that at least one of them will be  

able to attend on May 2. Bernard will be available to participate  

in the IESG retreat remotely on May 3.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


There were three sets of minutes under review. The minutes of the  

2010-12-22 business meeting were approved with one change. Dow  

asked the board to review the minutes of the 2011-04-13 business  

meeting so that they can be approved at the next meeting. The IETF  

80 plenary transcript is currently being reviewed by email, and will  

be approved by email once the review is complete.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn was unable to be on the call due to a scheduling conflict, but  

she submitted a written report to the board ahead of time.


<Begin ISOC Liaison written report>


Topics:


I. ISOC comment on APNIC’s last /8 allocation of IPv4 addresses  

II. e-G8 Forum, May 24-25  

III. OECD High Level Meeting on the Internet Economy, June 28-29  

IV. Internet Society IPv6 Panel @ IETF 80  

V. ISOC Requests IGF Open Forum Internet Standards  

VI. ISOC Board E-meeting  

VII. IAB/W3C/MIT Workshop on Privacy


I. ISOC comment on APNIC’s last /8 allocation of IPv4 addresses


ISOC noted the announcement from APNIC that they are down to their  

last /8 of IPv4 addresses, and restrictive policies are kicking in,  

along with the importance of continued proper IP address registration  

in the post-depletion world:


http://isoc.org/wp/newsletter/?p=3592http://www.isoc.org/internet/issues/docs/ip-addresses\_20110418.pdf


II. e-G8Forum, May 24-25


As host of the 2011 G8 and G20 meetings, France has decided to  

hold special sessions on Internet governance, including an eG8 Forum  

on May 24-25. Topics seem to be quite high level (Internet as an  

essential driver of knowledge; Emergence of a digital citizenry; the  

technologies of the future; Innovation; Impact of mobile  

communications on business, the media, etc.; and the protection of  

personal information and intellectual property). Lynn St. Amour has  

been invited to participate, as has Rod Beckstrom (ICANN). Although  

the time is drawing close, the event is still being organized, so no  

further details are available at present.


III. OECD High Level Meeting on the Internet Economy, June 28-29


ISOC leadership will be participating in the OECD High Level  

Meeting on the Internet Economy June 28-29 in Paris. The Internet  

Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC) has been given 20 passes to attend  

the event, and the following speakers have been confirmed:  

– Welcome and Opening session – Global trends for the Internet: Vint  

Cerf, ARIN  

– Session 2 – Role of broadband in innovation, economic growth and  

social development: Tim Berners Lee, W3C  

– Session 3 – Balancing policy goals to strengthen growth: Leslie  

Daigle, ISOC  

– Session 4 – Policy making principles for an open Internet: Laurent  

Liscia, OASIS  

Before the High Level Meeting on June 27, ISOC is arranging the first  

face-to-face meeting of the ITAC. IAB is an ITAC member.


IV. Internet Society IPv6 Panel @ IETF 80


ISOC had a successful briefing panel on Tuesday of IETF week,  

talking about IPv6 — How will we know we’ve arrived? Panelists  

offered a range of thoughts on what “good” looks like. The audio of  

the session is available here:


https://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/ietf80-briefing/


V. ISOC Requests IGF Open Forum Internet Standards


ISOC has submitted a request for an Open Forum meeting on  

Internet Standards at the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) in Nairobi  

in September. IGF Open Forums were introduced early on to allow major  

Internet related organizations to present their work (originally  

thought of as a kind of activity report of what happened during the  

past 12 months.) ISOC, ICANN, ITU, UNESCO, Council of Europe, OECD  

have previously used this platform to inform IGF participants. The  

session will provide an excellent opportunity to explain how the  

Internet standards organizations function. It is intended as an  

informational session to an audience that perhaps has more awareness  

of ITU-like organizations than the IETF.


VI. ISOC Board E-meeting


The next meeting of the ISOC Board of Trustees is scheduled to  

take place via WebEx on Monday, May 9, 2011, 19:00-21:00 UTC. ISOC  

Board meetings are open and participation is welcome. The agenda will  

be posted here:


http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/meetings.php


VII. IAB/W3C/MIT Workshop on Privacy


Following the IAB/W3C/MIT workshop on privacy a number of  

additional activities have emerged. Two to highlight in the near term  

are:


W3C Workshop on Identity in the Browser 24/25th May 2011, Mountain  

View (USA), http://www.w3.org/2011/identity-ws/


Trent Adams from the Internet Society Trust and Identity (TID) team is  

co-chairing this meeting and the call for papers close on April 27.  

Submissions include several from well known IETF participants and  

topics include both OAuth and abfab as well as security in the  

browser.


W3C Workshop on Web Tracking and User Privacy 28/29 April 2011,  

Princeton, NJ, USA, http://www.w3.org/2011/track-privacy/


Christine Runnegar (ISOC) is a member of the program committee and the  

agenda includes an IETF perspective from Peter Saint-Andre as well as  

papers from both Hannes and Alissa.


Both topics will also be covered at the spring Internet Identity  

Workshop (IIW): http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com/. ISOC TID  

folks will be on hand for both IIW and the proposed oauth interim  

session.


<End ISOC Liaison written report>


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Sean introduced his written report, with a note that the issues  

listed are ongoing, and that there is nothing requiring IAB  

attention at this time.


<Begin IESG Liaison written report>


SDO coordination:


– TRILL (IEEE 802.1): Working to ensure there’s no issue.


– MPLS (ITU-T): In the latest liaison response, we instructed them how  

to get code point. The ball is in their court to produce a draft  

and work it through the process.


– Q.flowstatesig (ITU-T): In their latest liaison  

(datatracker.ietf.org/documents/LIAISON/file1182.doc), SG11/Q5  

indicated they will be sending a final draft for our review. The  

plan is to send the draft for review to ietf@ietf.org as well as the  

TSV and INT directorates/areas. This ensures a public review of the  

document as opposed to just an AD review.


New work:


– PAWS (new): Some debate about a) where it would be located (RAI or  

Apps) – most seem to feel Apps; b) whether the scope too US specific  

wrt to privacy/security, and; c) whether XML is a good choice for  

the protocol.


– RTCWEB (new): Seems to be going to somewhat smoothly. At least two  

IESGers asked what state the documents marked ‘sent to W3C’ need to  

be in. Answer was that they would be IDs with consensus with the  

idea that they could be changed if there are objections from W3C  

(i.e., we send them an RFC and it’s a little harder to change it if  

they object).


– Softwires (recharter): A recharter was submitted to the IESG prior  

to IETF 80, but it was sent back to the WG because it had not been  

discussed in the WG. Looks like it will move forward with some  

minor changes.


<End IESG Liaison written report>


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


Olaf introduced his written report with a note that the future of  

the For Your Information (FYI) sub-series is currently under  

discussion.


<Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report>


RFC Editor Report April 27, 2011


== Production Center Statistics


March Statistics  

– – Sub: 56 (1813 pgs)  

– – Pub: 49 (1485 pgs)


April Statistics (to date)  

– – Sub: 16 (502 pgs)  

– – Pub: 40 (870 pgs)


There were increased submission rates in January and March (46 & 56,  

respectively), and we are now dealing with the issue of working the  

queue down to a normal level. The typical trend is for March to be a  

big submission month when there is turnover in the IESG; this year  

there were 2 sizable submission months (January subs: 46 / March subs:  

56).


== Noteworthy


=== The FYI Subseries


The FYI subseries that was established by RFC 1150 recently got quite a  

bit of attention. The trigger that raised the RFC-Editors attention  

was a request whether the FYI subseries was still available for the  

publication of draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-under-attack-help-help.


– From the perspective of the RFC-Editor we shared some factoids:


– – As far as the FYI is concerned that sub series still exist. It was  

taken into account as one of the subseries in RFC 5741 (RFC Streams,  

Headers, and Boilerplates). There is no mention of the subseries in  

RFC 4844. In particular no mention that there is a special stream-  

bound approval process (like for BCPs, see RFC 4844 section 5.1.1)


– – The most recent FYI was published in August 2007 (RFC 4949 (FYI  

36)) it was submitted as an Independent submission via RFC Editor.


And some opinions:  

– – Whether a FYI number is to be assigned is a question for the  

stream approvers.


– – Whether the FYI series still has utility, and how that utility is  

advertised, is a question that will be tabled for a future RSE, the  

answer depends a lot on whether the streams and the community sees  

this subseries as useful.


Currently there is an ongoing discussion about draft-iesg-  

rfc1150bis-00.txt, a document reflecting the IESG consensus to not use  

the FYI series any-longer.


<End RFC Editor Liaison written report>


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Lars reported that the new IRTF website (http://www.irtf.org) is  

live and that the issue tracker for IRTF-stream document has been  

cleaned up and is now up-to-date. Lars also reported that the IRSG  

is discussing the future of the MOBOPTS Research Group.


<No IRTF Chair written report was submitted>


### 3. IETF 81 Technical Plenary


Alissa reported that the Privacy Program team held a conference call  

to brainstorm ideas for the IETF 81 Technical Plenary. The team has  

come up with three options as to how the panel speakers could be  

structured, and asked the board to provide feedback on those options  

before the next business meeting. Alissa will send an email to the  

board to start the discussion about how to structure the panel  

session at the IETF 81 Technical Plenary.


### 4. Status of Programs and Initiatives


Bernard reminded the board members to sign up for the various  

Programs and Initiatives, and asked them to continue to think about  

potential non-board members for each Program and Initiative so that  

we can proceed to set up mailing lists. The leads and current  

members of each Program and Initiative were reviewed briefly.  

Program leads will be responsible for reporting back to the board.


#### 4.1. Privacy Program


Alissa will act as lead for the Privacy Program.


#### 4.2. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler will act as lead for the Internationalization Program.


#### 4.3. RFC Editor Program


Joel will act as lead for the RFC Editor Program. Joel will also be  

the interface between the RSOC and the board.


#### 4.4. IANA Evolution Program


Olaf will act as lead for the IANA Evolution Program.


#### 4.5. SDO Coordination Program


Andrei will act as lead for the SDO Coordination Program.


#### 4.6. IP Evolution


Danny will act as lead for the IP Evolution Initiative.


#### 4.7. DNS


Jon will act as lead for the DNS Initiative.


#### 4.8. IPv6 for IAB Business


Bernard will act as lead for the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative.


#### 4.9. HTTP/Web Evolution


Jon will act as lead for the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative.


### 5. Retreat Planning and Agenda


The board reviewed the agenda for the retreat. Discussion leaders  

have been identified for the various agenda topics. Bernard asked  

everyone to prepare for their discussions ahead of time, since time  

on the agenda is limited.


### 6. Action Item Review


This agenda item was deferred to the next business meeting (May 4,  

2011) due to lack of time. In the meantime, Cindy will contact  

board members offline for updates on the current status of action  

items.


### 7. Quick Summary of Discussion of IETF/W3C Liaison with Philippe le
Hegeret of W3C


Bernard reported that he and several other IAB members had met with  

Philippe le Hegeret to discuss  

the IETF/W3C liaison relationship and compare notes on current work.  

The W3C TAG would like to arrange a meeting with the board sometime  

around IETF 81 in Quebec, and planning for that is in progress.


### 8. All Other Business (AOB)


There was no other business.


### 9. Conclude Call


