
Minutes of the 2011-05-25 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

– Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)  

– Ross Callon  

– Alissa Cooper  

– Spencer Dawkins  

– Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)  

– Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

– David Kessens  

– Olaf Kolkman  

– Danny McPherson (present from 5.6 onwards)  

– Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)  

– Jon Peterson  

– Andrei Robachevsky  

– Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

– Dave Thaler


**APOLOGIES**  

– Joel Halpern  

– Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

– Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)  

– Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on a requested liaison relationship from ISO TC 204 was added  

to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


There were two sets of meeting minutes under review (2011-04-27 and  

2011-05-05). The board asked for another week to review those  

minutes.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn was unable to be on the call due to a scheduling conflict, but  

she submitted a written report to the board ahead of time.


<Begin ISOC Liaison written report>


Topics:  

I. Council of Europe  

II. OECD  

III. The Protect IP Act  

IV. ITU – IETF MPLS Issue  

V. IGF  

VI. CSTD  

VII. e-G8 Forum and 37th G8 Summit


————-  

I. Council of Europe – submitted by Markus Kummer


ISOC submitted comments to the Council of Europe on their draft Internet  

Governance Principles and Recommendation, highlighting the importance  

for existing SDOs to carry out their work free of government  

interference.  

http://www.isoc.org/pubpolpillar/docs/coe\_20110513.pdf


II. OECD – submitted by Markus Kummer


Ongoing preparations are being made for ISOC/ITAC participation in the  

OECD “High-Level on the Internet Economy: Generating Innovation and  

Growth” (28-29 June 2011, Paris). ISOC/ITAC submiited a written  

contribution to the outcome document, in particular empasizing the  

importance of developing principles in an open and inclusive  

multistakeholder process.


III. The Protect IP Act – submitted by Markus Kummer


The Protect IP Act was re-introduced in the U.S. Senate and serious  

concerns remain over provisions that would mandate DNS filtering by ISPs  

for sites that the government determines are dedicated to infringement.  

ISOC has participated alongside a group of technical experts to craft a  

document that reiterates the importance of the DNS as an essential  

infrastructure for the global Internet and outlines serious technical  

concerns with the implications of the DNS filtering requirement. This  

activity has helped advance ISOC’s thinking about the DNS blocking and  

filtering issue, a topic we are aiming to address from a global  

perspective.


IV. ITU – IETF MPLS Issue – submitted by Markus Kummer


ISOC is working closely with the IETF Chairman to craft a short, high-  

level paper that articulates the concerns with the ITU’s recent  

decisions regarding MPLS standards. The paper will articulate the  

importance of “respectful cooperation” amongst standards bodies and, in  

this specific case, the concern that the ITU will proceed to approve  

two, incompatible standards. This paper should help interested parties  

as they discuss the issue with governments, industry groups and other  

“non-technical” audiences.


V. IGF – submitted by Markus Kummer


ISOC participated at the IGF Open Consultations and MAG meeting on 18-19  

May 2011.


VI. CSTD – submitted by Markus Kummer


ISOC participated at the 14th Session of the Commission on Science and  

Technology for Development (CSTD) on “Progress made in the  

implementation of and follow-up to the WSIS outcomes” (24 May 2011).  

ISOC and representatives of the Internet technical and academic  

communities emphasized their support for continuation of the IGF on  

grounds of multistakeholder and open participation and called for an  

extension to the mandate of the CSTD Working Group (CSTD WG) on the IGF  

to make sure that any discussions would take place in a multistakeholder  

setting.


VII. e-G8 Forum and 37th G8 Summit – submitted by Markus Kummer


ISOC, ICANN, the NRO and the Internet Society French Chapter released a  

statement on 23 May 2011, urging G8 Governments to embrace  

multistakeholder approach to Internet issues  

(http://isoc.org/wp/newsletter/?p=3791). ISOC intends to pursue efforts  

to encourage member states to broaden the participation and engagement  

with all stakeholders, and also plans to build on the experience in the  

eG8 in May to develop a stronger presence in the G20 process and  

possible G20 side events next autumn.


<End ISOC Liaison written report>


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Sean was unable to be on the call due to a scheduling conflict.


<Begin IESG Liaison written report>


SDO coordination:


– Response regarding LS-256 and LS-258, Draft Recommendation G.phnt,  

“Protocol for identifying home network topology” (ITU-T SG 15) (See:  

https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1052/) was approved by the IESG in  

response to Liaisons https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1025/ and  

https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1026/.


– MPLS Working Group Last Calls forwarded to ITU-T SG15 Q9, Q10, Q12 and  

Q14 (see https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1050/).


– CCAMP Working Group Last Calls forwarded to ITU-T SG 15 (see  

https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1051/).


– Device API WG (W3C): W3C posted the Device API WG charter to the new  

work list on 5/12. Informally reached out to Thomas Roessler (cced Mark  

Nottingham, Stephen Farrell, and Peter Saint-Andre) asking whether  

crypto API work would be handled in this new WG. Stephen, Peter, and  

Sean generated a paper for the W3C Identity in the Browser Workshop  

(which was also reviewed by SAAG and the Apps Open Area lists) asking  

for access to the built-in browser crypto, as opposed to using Java  

Script distributed at run time. We just wanted to know if this new WG  

was going to tackle this work. No response yet.


– IPv6 Security Issues (ITU-T SG17 Q2 & Q3). Informally reached out to  

Chair and Vice Chair of SG 17 to figure out the actual work planned so  

that we know best how to respond to the liaison and whether there are  

things we should try to co-ordinate or not in the future. Note that the  

IETF’s ITU liaison (Eliot) has been made aware of these informal  

communications. Also the OPS & Management as well as the Internet Area  

ADs were made aware of the liaison as the Security ADs felt this could  

overlap with other areas.


WGs:


Recharters:


– Softwires (approved 5/26)  

– TLS (approved on 5/26)  

– OAUTH (out for external review on 5/26)  

– TSVWG (approved on 5/26)


New Working Groups:


– 6RENUM (out for external review on 5/26)


– PAWS: The debate continues. Discussion has been scheduled for the  

2011-06-02 informal IESG telechat. Sponsoring AD may invite the  

proposed WGs chairs (or others) to the call.


<End IESG Liaison written report>


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


Olaf introduced his written report, and noted that there are ongoing  

discussions about how IAB-stream documents are handled.


<Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report>


= Statistics


#### RFC Editor Queue Summary: 2011/05/23 ####


State total # total # Median Wks Average Wks  

docs pages in state in state


EDIT 34 1218 2.9 3.2  

RFC-EDIT 27 1126 1.9 1.9  

AUTH48 19 649 0.6 2.9  

MISSREF 52 1560 14.3 28.0  

REF 1 8 58.9 58.9  

AUTH 2 103 2.5 2.5  

ISR 19 473 24.0 44.4  

TO 1 35 0.7 0.7  

ISR-AUTH 18 714 12.3 27.4  

IESG 1 21 101.8 101.8  

IANA 1 38 0.7 0.7


Totals: 175 docs 5945 pages


= RFC Production Center Staffing.


Based on projected needs the Production Center has requested additional  

resources from the IAOC.


The reasons for this requests are manyfold: a high in-flux of documents,  

a higher than usual number of documents in the queue (175 vs 120-130), a  

number of activities that will need senior staff involvement, and the  

continued transition to the RSE.


Two additional part-timers have been approved till end-of-year.


= IAB stream specific: Header and Authors


(this is a detail that I would normally not include in a report like  

this, but it’s relevant for the IAB stream)


IAB gave some guidance about the appearance of the IAB and Editors in  

the authors and header sections. The RFC editor will publish this on its  

procedure pages so not only the IAB but also tool developers might  

benefit from having that information.


<End RFC Editor Liaison written report>


Dave Thaler brought up the question, regarding the IAB stream headers,  

of whether an approved errata should be posted on RFC 4845 section 2,  

since the new procedure differs from what is specified there. The  

board agreed that the new procedure does obsolete what was there.


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Lars reported that the Internet Congestion Control Research Group  

(ICCRG) is the process of being rechartered, and that there are two  

groups planning side meetings at IETF 81 to discuss forming new  

research groups. The new research groups would be focused on network  

complexity and information networking.


Lars also reported that the applications for the Applied Networking  

Research Prize (ANRP) are currently being reviewed.


Bernard asked Lars to suggest a Research Group to be reviewed by the  

board at IETF 81 before the next IAB teleconference (2011-06-01).


<No IRTF Chair written report was submitted>


### 3. IETF 81 Technical Plenary


Alissa reported that she and Hannes have contacted potential speakers,  

and have confirmed a speaker from the Canadian Data Protection  

Authority (DPA), exact name TBD. They have also tentatively  

confirmed an opening speaker. Alissa is still looking for  

a speaker from the browser vendor community, and Dave Thaler offered  

to help find someone.


### 4. W3C TAG Meeting


Bernard reported that he has exchanged correspondence with Noah  

Mendelsohn of the W3C Technical Architecture Group (TAG) about setting  

up a meeting between the IAB and the TAG. The time initially proposed  

is not ideal, so Bernard volunteered to set up a Doodle poll in order  

to get consensus on a more agreeable time. The agenda has not yet  

been set for this meeting.


### 5. Status of Programs and Initiatives


Dow asked the leads of all of the Programs and Initiatives to start  

thinking about what information about each Program/Initiative should  

be published on the new IAB website.


#### 5.1. Privacy Program


Alissa reported that the wiki page for this Program has been updated  

to include the list of non-IAB members and to organize the Program’s  

work items. The Privacy Program team is currently working on the  

report from the Internet Privacy Workshop that was held last December.  

The Program also has work items for privacy guidelines for protocol  

designers and a glossary of privacy terminology. The most pressing  

work item for the Privacy Program at the moment is organizing the  

panel session for the IETF 81 Technical Plenary (see Item 3, above).


#### 5.2. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler reported that both of the Applications Area Directors have  

agreed to participate in the Internationalization Program, and that he  

is waiting to hear back on a name for the ISOC representative. Dave  

also reported that work on the canonicalization internet-draft is  

still in progress.


#### 5.3. RFC Editor Program


Bernard reminded the board to submit their comments on  

draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 by 2011-06-01 so that Joel will have  

time to process the comments before the document is discussed at the  

IAB meeting on 2011-06-08.


#### 5.4. IANA Evolution Program


Olaf reported that the IANA Evolution Program is still waiting for  

correspondence on the ARIN /10 proposal and the IANA Notice of Inquiry  

(NOI). The IANA Evolution Program has a work item to come up with a  

list of good and bad characteristics for potential organizations that  

would hold the IANA contract.


#### 5.5. SDO Coordination Program


Andrei reported that the SDO Coordination Program is working on a  

document to outline the principles of coordination, and that the  

Program is hoping to meet face-to-face on the Saturday before IETF 81.  

Andrei and Spencer are working on a proposal on how to structure the  

Program, which may include having sub-Programs for specific high-  

activity SDOs.


#### 5.6. IP Evolution Initiative


Danny reported that a new revision of  

draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications that incorporates the latest  

comments will be published soon. Bernard reported that Hannes is  

working on the report from the Internet of Things workshop that was  

held in March.


#### 5.7. DNS Initiative


Jon suggested two additional names for non-IAB members of the DNS  

Initiative, and the board approved adding them. Jon also reported  

that he is following up on comments on draft-iab-dns-applications.


#### 5.8. IPv6 for IAB Business (inc. IPv6 day) Initiative


Bernard reported that he had sent the board an update on preparation  

for a live chat over IPv6, and that there is a problem with a BOSH  

connection manager that does not support IPv6. A bug report has been  

filed on this issue, and Bernard is looking to find another  

implementation that runs over IPv6.


#### 5.9. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative


Jon reported that there was nothing new to report on the HTTP/Web  

Evolution Initiative.


#### 5.10. Evaluate Mapping of IAB Website and IAB Communication Processes


This agenda item was not discussed.


### 6. Action Item Review


Cindy reported that the action item list has been reorganized in an  

attempt to make it more user-friendly. She briefly went through the  

action items that were nearing their due dates and asked for updates;  

the action item list will be updated accordingly.


### 7. AOB


#### 7.1 ISO TC 204 Liaison


Bernard reported that there has been an inquiry from ISO TC 204  

(“Intelligent Transport Systems”) about establishing a formal liaison  

relationship with ISOC/IETF. Spencer volunteered to serve as liaison  

shepherd for ISO TC 204, find a liaison manager and come up with a  

proposal for how to proceed.


(More information about ISO TC 204 is available at  

http://www.iso.org/iso/iso\_technical\_committee?commid=54706)


### 8. Conclude Call


