
Minutes of the 2011-06-01 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


**GUESTS**


* Mat Ford [for Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)]


**APOLOGIES**


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


Dow asked the board if they had any additional items to add to the agenda. Spencer replied that he could give a brief update on the proposed ISO TC 204 liaison; this topic was covered under “7. Action Items” below.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow reminded the board that mailing lists are being set up under the iab.org domain for all of the programs and initiatives, and asked the leads to contact him if they want specific names for their mailing lists.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


Minutes of the 27 April 2011 and 4 May 2011 meetings were approved.


### 2. PAWS re-chartering liaison / IEEE liaisons


Sean reported that the IESG is still discussing the proposed Protocol to Access White Space (PAWS) charter. One issue under discussion is whether chartering this working group will require a liaison relationship with the ITU-R. After discussion, the board concluded that the IAB saw no reason why such a liaison relationship would be required. There was a separate question about whether the PAWS work would require a liaison relationship with IEEE 802.19; that discussion was deferred.


### 3. Liaison Manager Role


There has been a request from the IESG to replace liaison managers who are currently sitting Area Directors or Working Group Chairs (where the WG is relevant to the liaison), and in addition are actively working in the SDO body they manage. This request was made both to allow a path for escalation should the need arise, and to avoid perceived conflicts on interest when the person judging consensus calls is also the liaison manager. Spencer has sent an email to the board outlining his initial thoughts on the matter; the first step is that the currently-practiced liaison manager role needs to be separated into the work of a “liaison manager” in RFC 4691, and the work that goes beyond that. This issue will be discussed further by the SDO Coordination Program team; the SDO Coordination Program will come back to the board with a recommendation.


### 4. Meeting with W3C TAG


Bernard reported that a conference call with the W3C TAG has been scheduled for Tuesday, 7 June 2011. Jon is working with Larry Masinter of the W3C TAG on the agenda for this meeting.


### 5. IAB Schedule at IETF 81


Bernard and Dow briefly outlined the draft IAB schedule for IETF 81.  Bernard asked the board for suggestions for the technical session on Sunday afternoon; the board discussed DNS issues as a potential topic.


Bernard also asked the board for input about which IRTF RG should be reviewed on Thursday; Dow will follow up with Lars on that.


Dow reminded the board that the meeting with the IESG to discuss BOF requests for IETF 81 has been tentatively scheduled for 16 June 2011.  There was a brief discussion about BOF reports; the board agreed to discuss that more at a future meeting as part of the larger discussion about the role of BOF shepherds.


### 6. Program Status Reports


#### 6.1. Privacy Program


Alissa reported that the Privacy Program is still working to find someone from the browser vendor community to speak at the IETF 81 Technical Plenary. The Privacy Program is scheduled to give a more detailed report to the board at the IAB meeting on 15 June 2011.


#### 6.2. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler reported that he is still trying to confirm who will be the ISOC representative to the Internationalization Program; Mat said that he would ask Lynn to follow up with Dave. The Internationalization Program is scheduled to give a more detailed report to the board at the IAB meeting on 22 June 2011.


#### 6.3. RFC Editor Program


Joel reported that the RSOC has been meeting weekly, and that discussions about whether to engage a search firm to assist in the hiring of the RFC Series Editor are continuing. Joel reminded the board that comments on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 were requested by 1 June 2011; several board members responded that they were planning to send comments soon.


#### 6.4. IANA Evolution Program


Olaf reported that the IANA Evolution Program has still not seen the new IANA Notice of Inquiry (NOI). Olaf also reported that the team met to discuss the ARIN /10 proposal. Olaf informed the board that a draft of this message should be ready for the board to review by 3 June 2011. The board will plan to discuss this at the IAB meeting on 8 June 2011, unless ARIN approves the policy in the meantime and a more urgent response is required.


#### 6.5. SDO Coordination Program


Andrei reported that he and Spencer are still working on a proposal to structure the SDO Coordination Program to include sub-Programs for high-activity SDOs. The SDO Coordination Program is planning to meet on the Saturday before IETF 81 (July 23, 2011).


#### 6.6. IP Evolution Initiative


Hannes reported that the Smart Objects workshop report is nearly complete. Dave Thaler and Joel will work on proposed boilerplate text to include in workshop reports. A new revision of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications is expected soon.


#### 6.7. DNS Initiative


Jon reported that there were no current updates for the DNS Initiative.


#### 6.8. IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative (inc. IPv6 day)


Bernard advised the board that it is unlikely that any of the bugs he reported about the punjab BOSH connection manager lack of IPv6 support will be resolved before IPv6 Day on 8 June 2011.


#### 6.9. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative


Jon reported that the next step for the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative is the upcoming meeting with the W3C TAG (see item 4 above).


### 7. Action Items


Cindy briefly reviewed the action items that are nearing their due dates. Spencer reported that he would act as the liaison shepherd for the ISO TC 204 liaison relationship, and that he is still working on the structure for this liaison relationship.


### 8. AOB


Olaf reported that the new IAB website is nearing completion, and asked the board to make a final review of the new site. The current plan is to contact Glen Barney at AMS to begin the website transition sometime in the next week.


### 9. Conclude Call


