
Minutes of the 2011-06-29 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Joel Halpern
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.2. Agenda


Bernard asked to discuss the RFC Editor Model v2 announcement. This was covered under “7. RSE / RSOC Update.”


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative issues were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 15 June 2011 meeting.


### 2. SDO Coordination Program and Liaison Management


#### 2.1. Agenda for Proposed SDO Coordination Meeting


Andrei reported that he is working on the draft agenda for the SDO Coordination meeting in Quebec City; the agenda should be ready for the board to review at the IAB meeting on 6 July 2011.


#### 2.2. Recommendation on SDO Sub-program Structure


Spencer reported that he sent an email to the board outlining the proposed structure for sub-programs of the SDO Coordination Program.  The board agreed that only high-activity liaison relationships need to be structured as sub-programs. Spencer and Andrei are still working to refine the text, and will send an updated version out to the board.


#### 2.3. Recommendation / Response to IESG re: Liaisons


The board approved a response to the IESG request regarding liaison managers. Bernard will send the response to the IESG on behalf of the board.


#### 2.4. Note from Eliot re: ITU-T liaison manager change


The board approved sending a liaison to the ITU-T on “Appointment of Eliot Lear as new IETF Liaison Manager to the ITU-T.” Bernard will send the liaison on behalf of the board.


### 3. IAB Job Description


The board approved the IAB job description for the NomCom. Bernard will send the job description to the NomCom Chair and ask that it be published on the NomCom web page.


### 4. IETF 81 Plenary Update


Alissa reported that three speakers have been confirmed for “The Web Privacy Tussle” panel session, and that she is meeting with the speakers ahead of time to discuss presentation slides.


Bernard reported that Leslie Daigle and Fred Baker are organizing the “Report from World IPv6 Day” session and are talking to potential speakers.


Bernard asked the board for feedback on the agenda for the face-to-face meeting time at IETF 81; currently, Sunday will be devoted to document reviews, Tuesday will focus on the Privacy Program and Thursday will be a review of the IRTF Crypto Forum Research Group (CFRG).


### 5. Document Review


#### 5.1. Privacy Workshop Report


Alissa reported that the draft of the Privacy Workshop report is ready for wider review from the IAB and workshop attendees. Alissa will submit the workshop report as an IAB submission internet-draft.


#### 5.2. Smart Object Workshop Report


Hannes reported that the Smart Objects Workshop report is still being reviewed by Jari Arkko, but once that review is complete the report should be ready for wider review from the workshop participants.


#### 5.3. Anycast Architecture Document


Bernard reported that a new revision of this document is expected soon, and it is scheduled to be reviewed on Sunday at IETF 81.


#### 5.4. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Bernard reported that a new revision of this document was recently posted, and that it is scheduled for further discussion on Sunday at IETF 81.


### 6. IAB Website Update


Bernard reported that Dow has been updating the Correspondence section of the website. Bernard reminded the Program and Initiative leads to fill in the descriptions on their respective pages, and asked everyone to check and make sure that their posting permissions are correct.


### 7. RSE / RSOC Update


Bernard reported that the RSOC is still in discussions about hiring a search firm.


Bernard reported that a new revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 was posted, and the document is now ready for review from the IETF community. After discussion, the board agreed that Bernard (on behalf of the IAB) would issue a call for comments and ask for replies to be sent to the IAB mailing list with a CC to the RFC-Interest mailing  

list.


### 8. AOB


#### 8.1 ARIN Proposal


Russ reported that John Curran asked for a timeline for moving the ARIN proposal on “Shared Transition Space for IPv4 Address Extension” through the IETF process; Russ responded that following the AD review, there would be a four-week Last Call period, and that the time to address Last Call comments would vary depending on the volume and content of the comments received.


The current plan is that the ARIN proposal will be submitted as an AD-sponsored individual submission.


### 9. Conclude Call


