
Minutes of the 2011-08-24 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Olaf Kolkman
* Dave Thaler


##### GUESTS


* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC, present for agenda item 4 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on Securing the Web Infrastructure was added under All Other Business (14).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the IETF 81 Technical Plenary and the 10 August 2011 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
ISOC Liaison Report to the IAB
Wednesday, August 24, 2011

Topics:
I. Internet Evolution Briefing Panel
II. Internet Governance Forum 2011
III. ITU MPLS
IV. ITU WTSA / ITRs
V. DNS Blocking / filtering

I. Internet Evolution Briefing Panel
- ISOC convened a successful briefing panel at IETF 81. The panel was
titled "Internet Evolution." A description and a recording of the
panel is available here:

https://www.isoc.org/isoc/conferences/ietf81-briefing/

II. Internet Governance Forum 2011
- ISOC has elaborated an extensive engagement plan including close
coordination with the I* community and ISOC members (preparatory
calls and meetings, on-site activities) for the Nairobi IGF meeting.
The Society will be highly visible at the IGF this year again. Roles
have been secured for staff in the most important main sessions,
including the one focusing on "Internet Critical Resources", and
ISOC will also be organizing an Open Forum on standards. Staff and
members are organizing and participating in an important number of
workshops. ISOC's visibility will be enhanced by social events, ISOC
brochures in the delegates' kits, and the ISOC booth in the IGF
village. Finally, bilateral meetings will be organized at the
highest level; ISOC has been requested by the IGF Secretariat to
coordinate a meeting between USG Sha or his representative and the
I* community.

III. ITU MPLS
- ISOC and IETF continue to coordinate on how to address the ITU-T
SG15 activities with respect to MPLS. A draft outreach paper has been
crafted and can be used in discussions with friendly countries and
key industry players. ISOC and IETF are strategizing about the best
way to conduct this outreach and also using the SG15 experience to
develop lessons learned that can be applied to future ITU
engagement.

IV. ITU WTSA / ITRs
- ISOC has kicked off its preparations for the World Conference on
International Telecommunication Regulations (WCIT), a treaty
conference which will take place in Oct/Nov 2012 to revise and
update the International Telecommunication Regulations.  Sally
Wentworth will lead ISOC's efforts in this area, coordinating with
the IETF, ISOC members,  the Internet community, and other key
partners.  A background paper has been made available and more
information may be found at: http://www.isoc.org/itrs.  We
expect to be active in the WCIT preparatory process both at the
global and the regional levels and will be working to develop
information material and position papers as the process unfolds.

V. DNS Blocking / filtering
- ISOC is crafting a postion paper on DNS blocking/filtering policies
that are cropping up around the globe. The paper outlines ISOC
concerns with using the DNS as a tool for the implementation of
policy requirements and is targeted at policy makers across the
globe.  We will be circulating the paper for comment shortly.
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
SDO Coordination

- The IESG responded to the ITU-T Q5/SG11 liaison requesting review
of the most recent revision of the draft Q.Flowstatesig
recommendation on July 24th (see
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1076/).

- The CODEC WG submitted one liaison to 3GPP SA WG4 (see
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1078/), ITU-T SG16 Q8, 9, 10/16
(see https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1074/), and ISO (sent via
email getting it added to the liaison tracker) requesting a 4-week
review of the codec the WG developed.

- The MPLS WG exchanged a number of liaisons with ITU-T SG15, Q9, Q10,
Q12 and Q14.  See: https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1072/,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1071/,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1070/,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1080/.

- The MPLS WG also exchanged a liaison with ITU-T SG15 asking a
question about the approach taken in draft-ietf-mpls-tp-itu-t-
identifiers (see https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1073/).

================
Working Groups

Recharters
- lwig (Internet)
- pce (Routing)
- vcarddav (Applications)
- bfd (Routing)

Closed
- shim6 (Internet)
- ipdvb (Internet)
- ltans (Security)
- isms (Security)
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor


–No RFC Editor Liaison written report was submitted–


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Lars reported that he has received a proposed charter for a research group on network complexity, and expects to bring that to the board in the coming weeks.


Lars also reported that the call for nominations for the second Applied Networking Research Prize is currently open, and that the selection committee will be reviewing papers through 20 September 2011.


–No IRTF Chair written report was submitted–


### 3. Friday Meeting at IETF


The IESG is proposing a change to the Friday schedule at face-to-face meetings. The proposal is currently under discussion by the IETF community on the IETF-Discuss list. Sean asked the board to confirm that they had no objections to the proposed schedule change, which includes moving the joint IAB-IESG breakfast to a lunch session. The board confirmed that there were no objections.


### 4. SG15 Update


There was a meeting hosted by the U.S. State Department on 22 August 2011 to get input from industry on the U.S. delegation position regarding the MPLS-TP OAM proposal called G.8113.1. No conclusion was reached.


### 5. RFC Editor Model v2 & RSOC Update


Joel reported that he hopes to have a new revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 ready within a few weeks.


Joel reported that the RSOC is currently interviewing candidates for the RFC Series Editor position. The RSOC has been working with a human resources consultant to revise the job description for outside candidates, and hopes to post additional online advertisements by the end of the week.


### 6. EC Interactions


Hannes proposed that the IAB review two letters to the European Commission (EC) currently under review. One letter related to emergency services and would be from the IAB. Alissa agreed to work with Hannes to revise the text of the emergency services letter based on the board’s discussion. The other letter, a followup from the Internet of Things Workshop, would be sent by the authors, not the IAB. The board agreed to review that letter for accuracy.


The board also discussed the broader issue of interacting with the EC and other similar government organizations, and agreed that a new Program on this topic may be in order. Alissa and Hannes will draft a proposal for a Program on this topic.


### 7. IETF Nomcom update


Bernard reported that the NomCom website still has the old IAB job description, and that he has sent email to Dave Thaler (IAB Liaison to the NomCom) about that. The Program information on the IAB website that is referenced in the job description is currently up to date, although some Programs and Initiatives still need to post their membership lists.


### 8. IETF 82 Plenary: Internet of Things


The board agreed to schedule the board meeting on 7 September 2011 as a tech chat on the Internet of Things in Industrial Networks as a first step towards planning a panel session for the IETF 82 Technical Plenary. Hannes will follow up with Pascal Thubert about inviting guests for that tech chat.


### 9. Open Internet Advisory Committee


The board briefly discussed the FCC Open Internet Advisory Committee. Thus far, the board has not found anyone in the IETF community who was already planning to volunteer for the committee. Hannes reported that he was considering volunteering, but will need to check with his sponsors before making a commitment.


### 10. draft-manderson-routing-intent


The board briefly discussed draft-manderson-routing-intent, and agreed that the work could be handled in one of the working groups in the Operations and Management Area at the IESG’s discretion, and that it does not require handling by the IAB. Bernard will report this assessment to Ron Bonica.


### 11. draft-carpenter-referral-ps


The board briefly discussed draft-carpenter-referral-ps. Danny agreed to take the draft to the IP Evolution Initiative to see if there is interest there in picking up the work, and will report back at the next IAB business meeting on 14 September 2011.


### 12. Web site updates


Dow reported that recent updates have been made to the IAB website, including the posting of the IAB response to the IESG statement on liaisons, the posting of the new ITU-T MPLS and Optical Plane liaison managers, and the posting of the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative description.


### 13. Program Highlights


Spencer asked the board to review the proposed members for the Liaison Oversight Program before the next business meeting.


The board briefly discussed the liaison to the ITU-T naming the new liaison shepherds for ITU-T MPLS and ITU-T SG 15 (Optical Control Plane). The board agreed the Bernard would send this liaison on behalf of the IAB.


### 14. All Other Business


Hannes asked the board to review his email on “Securing the Web Infrastructure” as part of the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative.


### 15. Liaison to the ICANN Board (Executive Session)


The board discussed the IAB Liaison to the ICANN Board in an executive session. The board will continue the discussion at the next IAB business meeting on 14 September 2011.


