
Minutes
IAB Teleconference
--------------------------


2011-02-23


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba  

Marcelo Bagnulo  

Ross Callon  

Alissa Cooper (incoming IAB)  

Spencer Dawkins  

Joel Halpern (incoming IAB)  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

David Kessens (incoming IAB)  

Olaf Kolkman (IAB Chair)  

Glenn Kowack (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Danny McPherson  

Jon Peterson  

Andrei Robachevsky  

Lynn St.Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dave Thaler  

Hannes Tschofenig  

**APOLOGIES**  

Ron Bonica (IESG liaison to the IAB)  

Aaron Falk (IRTF Chair)  

John Klensin  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


Minutes of the IETF 79 technical plenary and the Nov. 24 IAB meeting were approved.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


Lynn briefly summarized the content of her written report.


<begin ISOC Liaison written report>


ISOC’s Liaison Report to the IAB  

February 23, 2011


Topics:  

I. ISOC’s Vice President of Public Policy  

II. World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos  

III. ISOC’s IETF Fellowship Program  

IV. IPv4 depletion/ IPv6 deployment Press Conference  

V. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting


I. ISOC’s Vice President of Public Policy


On February 1, 2011 Markus Kummer joined the Internet Society as VP for Public Policy. He previously served as Executive Coordinator of the UN Secretariat supporting the United Nations’ Internet Governance Forum. Markus has extensive experience with Internet policy at the global, regional, and national levels. As VP of Public Policy he will advance key Internet Society policy positions on issues such as privacy, security, and network neutrality. Markus will also be assuming much of Bill Graham’s previous support to the IETF as Bill moves to a partial retirement in April. Bill will remain with ISOC, but in a more focused role in line with his reduced availability.


II. World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos


ISOC’s CEO and President was invited to participate as a Civil Society Leader for a second year in the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting from 26 to 30 January 2011 in Davos, Switzerland. The overall theme for this Annual Meeting was “Shared Norms for the New Reality.” Per the WEF, this theme “reflects the concern of many leaders today – namely, living in a world that is becoming increasingly complex and interconnected and, at the same time, experiencing an erosion of common values and principles”.


Lynn participated in a number of sessions including “Governing in a new media age”, “Industries under Cybersiege: Time for Action” and the “Economics of Cloud Computing”, in all of these sessions, one key goal was to emphasize the importance of safeguarding the unique qualities of the Internet in the face of renewed pressures. Interestingly, this was during the time of the Internet and mobile phone “shutdown” in Egypt.


III. ISOC’s IETF Fellowship Program


ISOC has awarded ten ISOC Fellowships to IETF 80. The Fellows are from: India (2 fellows), Argentina, Tanzania, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Mexico, Brasil, Moldova, and Malaysia. Five of these Fellows are Returning Fellows.


IV. IPv4 depletion/ IPv6 deployment Press Conference


ISOC participated in a press conference with ICANN, the NRO and the IAB on IPv4 depletion/IPv6 deployment on February 3rd. Each organization issued a statement and fielded questions from national and international media. To read ISOC’s statement go to:


<http://isoc.org/wp/newsletter/?p=3139>.


V. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting


The ISOC Board is holding its next Board meeting on April 2nd (full day) and 3rd (AM only) 2011, immediately after IETF 80 in Prague. ISOC Board meetings are open and participation is welcome. The agenda will be posted in March at:


<http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/meetings.php>


<end ISOC Liaison written report>


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Ron was not on the call due to a schedule conflict. No written report was submitted.


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


Glenn reported that he and Olaf are working on a transition plan for when his contract ends, and that he is working to finish the documents, which are a work in progress. The citation committee is about to deliver their final report. Joel is currently working on RFC 5620bis, the revised RFC Editor Model document. He raised the concern of finding a suitable candidate for the permanent RSE; Glenn acknowledged the pitfalls that were experienced the last time and he will attempt to highlight them so the next hiring proceeds more smoothly.


<being RFC Editor Liaison written report>


RFC Editor Report to the IAB  

Wednesday, 23 February 2011


RFC Editor Operations


January 2011 Statistics


Sub: 46  

Pub: 23


February 2011 Statistics (partial as of 22 February)


Sub: 23  

Pub: 17


We don’t anticipate seeing an increase in overall RFC output due to our two recently-added copy editors until next month’s numbers are out.


TRSE Activities This Period


A solid draft of the RSE Call for Candidates is complete and has been reviewed by the RSAG and Ray Pelletier. This document follows a style and format similar to that of the original IAD Call as well as current ISOC job postings. I have attached below a copy of that Call for your information.


Joel Halpern and I got the go-ahead last week to use Olaf’s consensus draft as the basis for our document work, and there are no apparent contentious issues on the rfc-interest list.


The text of the RSE Statement of Work is now well underway. I am coordinating the text of the Call and SOW with Joel Halpern in his role as 5620bis editor. All three documents must be closely aligned. As the SOW and 5620bis are completed, the text of the Call will be modified as necessary to maintain alignment. Once there is a complete SOW draft I will turn my attention to updating the hiring process draft for use by the RSOC.


I am supporting Olaf Kolkman’s orientation for his upcoming role providing extraordinary support for the RFC Editor. He is now on the RSAG and RFC Editor lists, and attended today’s weekly RFC Editor meeting.


RFC Citations RSE Committee


I expect to receive the final recommendations from the RFC Citations RSE Committee some time today. Our next steps will include internal review by the RFC Editor and RSAG. RFC Editor review will include evaluation of Editor requirements that result from the recommendations (including, for example, editor training or software development). As before, I don’t anticipate any surprises since Sandy Ginoza has been an active member of the committee.


If the recommendations appear straightforward and don’t require additional community discussion, the recommendations and Editor change requirements should be provided to the IAB for review and confirmation as policy. However, if the recommendations will require broader community review, then that activity will likely have to wait until the new RSE is on board or a volunteer can be found to lead the process.


<end RFC Editor Liaison written report>


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Aaron and Lars were not on the call due to schedule conflicts. No written report was submitted.


### 3. Forming an RSOC


The board discussed the role of the RSOC. The RSE hiring committee will be developed by the RSOC, and the committee and the RSOC will report to the IAB. The board will attempt to appoint the RSOC prior to the Prague IETF meeting.


Olaf had sent a draft announcement to the IAB for review, and the board agreed with the text.


Editor’s Note: The email announcement is now available here:


<http://www.rfc-editor.org/pipermail/rfc-interest/2011-February/002426.html>


### 4. ITU IPv6 Group Liaison Statement


The board discussed the updated draft of a liaison statement to the ITU IPv6 group. Ross and Andrei have been working on this text, and Ross took the action to incorporate the feedback provided on the call. The board will then have a last chance to review.


Ross is working with Patrik to finalize and deliver the liaison. The board also thanked Eliot Lear, who drafted the initial text.


Editor’s note: The liaison is now available here:


<https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1021/>


### 5. ITU-T / MPLS-TP Report and Request for Direction


Adrian Farrel had provided the IAB with a summary of the Geneva meeting with the ITU-T MPLS group, along with a brief history of the MPLS debate thus far. Coordination with the ITU-T on MPLS issues has been challenging as of late, since several members of the ITU continue to push technology that conflicts with IETF protocols. Russ has had some contact with the DoC on the matter, and Joel added that there was a DoC representative in Geneva as well. There was a discussion of potential next steps, including possible coordination with national representatives. Lynn will arrange a follow-up meeting with Bill Graham and various IAB members.


### 6. ITU-T Liaison Job Description


The current IETF liaison to ITU-T, Patrik Faltstrom, is preparing to step down from this role due to a change in responsibilities. The IAB has begun to look for a replacement, and Andrei drafted a job description to send to potential candidates. Olaf will forward the invitation to the list of potential candidates.


It was agreed to try and meet with candidates during IETF week, and make an appointment shortly thereafter.


### 7. Council of Europe Conference on Internet Freedom


The Council of Europe, InfoSoc, Media and Data Protection Division, is holding a meeting in April on Internet Freedom, and sent an invitation to Olaf asking for IETF participation. In the past the IAB and IETF have generally declined to formally participate in national meetings of this sort, although often members of the IETF community are aware and attend. The IAB has previously engaged in similar meetings of multi-national governance bodies, although the number of such meetings has been increasing in recent years. The IAB entered into a discussion of whether to attend this meeting, as well as a more general policy for meetings of this type given the limited resources at the IAB’s disposal.


No final decisions were made on the call. The discussion will move to the IAB mailing list.


### 8. Retreat Dates and Location


The board agreed on 12-13 May as the dates for their retreat. The location is still being finalized, but is likely to be somewhere in the Washington DC area. Hannes will talk to Alissa and Joel about a meeting venue.


### 9. IETF 80 Plenary Status


Jon gave a quick update, and confirmed that the W3C will send a speaker. Dave Thaler asked about acknowledging IANA IPv4 exhaustion and mentioning World IPv6 Day during the IAB plenary; the board thought this was a good idea.


### 10. Document Status and Next Steps


#### 10.1. IANA Draft


Danny has been working on this draft and he reported via email that he needs to find way to incorporate broad feedback from John, but it’s a nontrivial change from the current direction that has been adjusted at least twice now. He asked for some direction from Olaf and John on how to proceed here. After some discussion, it was agreed to set up a conference call with a smaller group to determine next steps.


#### 10.2. Anycast draft


Danny reported via email that he needs to post an update that incorporates the previous feedback from Dave Thaler. He is still willing to serve as author for this draft.


#### 10.3. Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions


Bernard reported that John and Dave had provided comments, and that it will take a few weeks to get them incorporated. He encouraged other members to also review and comment at this time. Danny had some further comments he will send.


#### 10.4. Evolution of the IP Model


Bernard will send new text to Dave this week, and then the document should be ready. After that, the IAB will conduct another week of final review before Olaf submits it to the RFC Editor.


### 11. IAB Chair and Exec Dir selection


Olaf had sent around a job description for the IAB Chair, and asked if there were any candidates at this time. He intends to step down as chair at the IETF meeting. He added that the time required for the Chair role depends partly on the workload carried by the Exec Dir, and recommended moving toward a paid part-time staff to assist going forward. Currently the Exec Dir is an unpaid volunteer.


There was general agreement that this was a good idea, given the increase in IAB meetings the past several years. A discussion of the Exec Dir role followed. The IAB had solicited scribes several months ago, but is back down to one part-time scribe from the original three volunteers. Russ and Olaf will work with Dow and Ray Pelletier (IAD) to draft a job description.


So far no members of the IAB have announced their interest in taking over as IAB Chair.


