
Minutes of the 2011-11-17 IAB Meeting 
Taipei, Taiwan
-----------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair) (present for item 4 only)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### APOLOGIES


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


#### GUESTS


* Fred Baker (RSOC Chair) (present for item 2 only)
* John Levine (IRTF Anti-Spam Research Group Chair) (present for item 4 only)


### 2. RFC Series Editor (RSE) Confirmation Discussion


Fred gave the board a brief overview of the process the RSOC used to select the RFC Series Editor candidate, and noted that the summary of the results of the candidate’s reference checks would be forthcoming.  The board agreed to begin the confirmation vote via email once the references are received.


The board thanked Fred and the entire RSOC for all of the work done to select an RFC Series Editor candidate.


### 3. IANA RFP


Olaf reported that the IANA Evolution team met to discuss the IANA RFP.  It was noted that the question period expiring on 18 November 2011 is only for bidders, and that until the contract is awarded, NTIA staff will be restricted in their ability to communicate. Therefore the IANA Evolution team recommends maintaining silence.


After discussion, the board concurred with the IANA Evolution team’s recommendation, and agreed on a common view that while the RFP appears to be very DNS-centric, the IAB is looking forward to working with NTIA to make the process successful. The Board did not want to make any further public comments so as not to interfere with the process.


### 4. IRTF Discussion: Anti-Spam Research Group (ASRG)


John Levine, chair of the Anti-Spam Research Group (ASRG) [[http://irtf.org/asrg](http://irtf.org/asrg "ASRG")], gave a brief overview of the research group’s activities. The RG has produced two RFCs and has rather sporadic activity because of the dearth of research in the anti-spam field.  ASRG research ties into the work of the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (MAAWG) [[http://www.maawg.org/](http://www.maawg.org/ "MAAWG")]. John noted that ASRG is the only Applications Area research group.


Future work topics include query patterns for blacklists as mail moves to IPv6.


