
Minutes of the 2011-06-15 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


**PRESENT**


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


**GUESTS (present through agenda item 2)**


* Trent Adams, ISOC
* Nick Doty
* Christine Runnegar, ISOC


**APOLOGIES**


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


An update on the Internet Governance Conference was added to the agenda under “7. All Other Business.”


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow reported that final issues for the new IAB website are being addressed. Bernard asked Program and Initiative leads to populate their pages and update other content, so that the new website can be announced to the community by 8 July 2011.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board is currently reviewing the minutes of the meetings of 1 June 2011 and 8 June 2011.


### 2. Privacy Program Review


Alissa gave an in-depth review of the current Privacy Program goals and activities. Privacy Program goals include:


* Develop privacy design considerations for Internet protocols
* Raise broad awareness of the privacy impact and properties of  

Internet protocols
* Determine the most effective role for the IETF among the broader  

community of SDOs, researchers, developers, and regulators working  

on Internet privacy


Current work items for the Privacy Program include:


* Privacy Workshop Report
* Privacy Guidance for Protocol Developers
	+ Case studies analyzing existing protocols against current guidance/knowledge for ABFAB, EAP, and IPv6
	+ Plenary at IETF 81
* Terminology document that identifies list of terms in need of common definition


The board discussed how the Privacy Program team should work with the Privacy Directorate on topics such as the Privacy Guidance document. Alissa and Sean will work on a proposal for coordination at IETF 81 for presentation at a future IAB meeting.


### 3. IPv6 Day Topic at IETF 81 Plenary


The board received a request from Fred Baker for time on the IETF 81 Technical Plenary agenda to discuss the results of World IPv6 Day.  After discussion, the board agreed to adjust the plenary agenda to allow 45 minutes for this. Bernard will follow up with Fred and Leslie Daigle on this.


### 4. BOF coverage plan


Spencer asked the board to review the proposal for the BOF Coverage entry in the IAB wiki.


### 5. ARIN Address Proposal


Olaf reported that the IANA strategy group has drafted a message to ARIN regarding Draft Policy ARIN-2011-5 (Shared Transition Space for IPv4 Address Extension). In the meantime, John Curran (President and CEO of ARIN) requested specific feedback from the IAB Chair and IETF Chair. The IANA strategy group is revising their existing draft message to send in response.


### 6. IANA NOI Response


The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) released the IANA Functions Further Notice of Inquiry (FNOI), and requested that comments be sent back on or before 29 July 2011 [<http://www.ntia.doc.gov/frnotices/2011/FR_IANA_FurtherNOI_06142011.pdf>].  Olaf reported that the FNOI will be reviewed by the IANA strategy group, who will then make a recommendation for the statement of work.


### 7. All Other Business


Olaf reported that he received a request from the organizers of the Asia Pacific Internet Governance Forum Singapore for an IETF speaker to participate in a panel session being held 17 June 2011. The board discussed potential speakers, but concluded that due to the short time frame, they would be unable to find a qualified speaker in time for the event. Olaf will respond to the organizers to let them know.


### 8. Conclude Call


