
Minutes of the 2011-10-05 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Olaf Kolkman


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 21 September 2011 and 28 September 2011 business meetings remain under review.


### 2. IETF 82 Plenary


Hannes reported that he has contacted several potential speakers for the IETF 82 Technical Plenary panel session; three speakers have already confirmed their availability. Hannes will ask Leslie Daigle whether ISOC would like to give their point of view during the panel; if not, Hannes will invite an additional speaker.


### 3. SG17 Liaison


The board discussed creating a liaison to ITU-T SG17. Before proceeding with a more formal liaison, Andrei, Ross and Sean will try to find out if anyone in the IETF community is already participating in SG17. The board hopes to be interviewing candidates in Taipei, with the ultimate goal of having someone in place by the next SG17 meeting in February.


### 4. Emergency Services Initiative Charter


Hannes reported that he has sent the proposed Emergency Services Initiative charter to potential initiative members and is awaiting feedback from them. Hannes will work to refine the charter and deliverables based on the IAB feedback already received, and will report back at the next IAB teleconference on 12 October 2011.


### 5. Web Security / HTTP Evolution


Hannes reported that edits have been made to the Web Security / HTTP Evolution Initiative charter. Hannes will circulate the revised text to the board and discuss feedback on the mailing list.


### 6. BOF Review


The board briefly reviewed the discussions with the IESG on BOFs for IETF 82. The board noted that in the future it would be beneficial to allow more time between the deadline to request BOF sessions and the planning meeting with the IESG, so that there is more time to review the proposals.


### 7. Program and Initiative Review


#### 7.1. RFC Editor Program


The RSOC has gotten a good response to the RSE advertisements, and is currently working to produce a short-list, which will be culled to a list of finalists by IETF 82. Bernard will work with Fred Baker to better understand the RSE selection timeline and the implications for the IAB meeting schedule at IETF 82.


#### 7.2. Privacy Program


Alissa asked the board to provide feedback on her slides for the SDO privacy meeting being held on 13 October in conjunction with the OASIS International Cloud Symposium (<http://events.oasis-open.org/home/cloud/2011>).


Dave Thaler asked if anyone was planning to attend the CGN meeting at the upcoming NANOG meeting. Sean is planning to attend, and agreed to report back to the board afterwards.


Alissa reported that draft-morris-privacy-considerations has been updated, and that she will asking the board to review this in order to adopt it as an IAB document. Hannes reported that a new version of draft-hansen-privacy-terminology should be available in the next couple of weeks.


#### 7.3. Liaison Oversight Program


Spencer reported that the Liaison Oversight Program is setting up a mailing list and subscribing the recently-approved members to that list.


#### 7.4. ITU-T Coordination Program


Andrei reported that discussions on SG17 are ongoing (see section 3).


#### 7.5. Internationalization Program


No updates were reported.


#### 7.6. IANA Evolution Program


Bernard reported that he received an email from NTIA offering to set up a conference call to further discuss the IANA functions contract. After discussion, the board agreed to wait until the RFP and statement of work are published to decide whether another conference call is required.


#### 7.7. IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative


Bernard indicated that he would be contacting volunteers for the IPv6 for Business initiative to confirm their availability. The IAOC will announce an RFP/SoW to develop functional specifications for “Remote Participation Services” that may be potentially relevant to the initiative (e.g., the functional specification may eventually incorporate IPv6 as a requirement).


#### 7.8. IP Evolution Initiative


Danny reported that he has received comments on the most recent version of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications. Those comments will be addressed in the next version of the draft, which Danny expects to submit shortly, so that the document can complete IAB review and go out for community-wide comment around IETF 82.


#### 7.9. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative


See section 5 for update.


#### 7.10. DNS Initiative


No updates were reported.


### 8. Interop in Paris


Hannes reported that ETSI is planning to sponsor a CoAP interoperability event co-located with IETF 83 in Paris. The board discussed whether this would be marketed as a joint ETSI/IETF event, and agreed that this is a separate ETSI event.


### 9. Role of IAB in New Work


The board will discuss the role of the IAB in new work with the IESG on Sunday, November 13 in Taipei. Spencer asked the board to review the information currently on the wiki and raise any concerns on the email list.


### 10. ISOC BoT Report


Bernard reported that the ISOC Board of Trustees will be meeting on October 22-23 and had requested that the IAB Report be submitted by October 7. Bernard requested updates from the Program and Initiative leads by Friday, and would circulate the final slides for comment.


### 11. Response to NTIA email


The NTIA email was discussed during the IANA Evolution Program update in section 7.6.


### 12. AOB


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


