
Minutes of the 2011-09-28 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Andrei Robachevsky


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on the ETSI-sponsored interoperability event in Paris was added as agenda item 14.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow reminded the board that the joint call with the IESG to discuss BOF sessions for IETF 82 is scheduled for Tuesday, 4 October 2011 at 8:30 AM PDT.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 24 August 2011 and 7 September 2011 meetings.


### 2. RFC Editor Model v2 / ISE Model Update


Joel reported that updates to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 to remove the content that was spun out into draft-iab-ise-model are forthcoming. The board agreed that once the new version of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 is posted, the board will send out a community-wide call for comments on draft-iab-ise-model that notes the corresponding updates to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2.


### 3. IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative


The board agreed to add Marshall Eubanks, Tina Tsou and Hassan Zaheer to the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative, pending confirmation of interest, and discussions with the IAOC on the forthcoming RFP/SoW for “Remote Participation Services”. The initial focus will be on conferencing solutions operating over IPv6.


### 4. IETF 82 Plenary


Hannes reported that he has contacted several potential speakers for the IETF 82 Technical Plenary panel session. The board discussed the speakers, and agreed to have a total of five panelists. Speaker topics will include Smart Grid, smart sensors, building automation and the IETF architecture. Hannes will confirm the speakers’ availability and report back to the board next week.


### 5. IETF 82 Schedule


Dow asked the board to review the draft IAB schedule for IETF 82 that has been posted on the wiki.


### 6. October 5th Techchat


Dave Thaler reported that Stuart Cheshire is available for a techchat on firewalls either on 5 October or 2 November, but that he would not be able to have slides if the techchat is on 5 October. The board discussed holding the techchat on 5 October and adding another speaker; Dave will investigate and report back by the end of the week. The board agreed to hold a regular business meeting on 5 October if the techchat on firewalls is pushed back to 2 November.


Hannes suggested a future techchat with a speaker from the FCC on the interactions between those working on the technology side and those working on the regulatory side. Hannes will follow up with the board via email.


### 7. IAB Liaison to IESG


Hannes has been acting as the IAB liaison to the IESG but needs to step down to focus on other IETF responsibilities. Joel agreed to be the new IAB liaison to the IESG; he will be added to the mailing lists now and work with Hannes so that he can be fully transitioned into the role by IETF 82.


### 8. Exec Director Transition


Dow informed the board that he will be stepping down as the IAB Executive Director. Dow agreed to stay on until a new Executive Director can be found, with the goal of having the new person in place in time for IETF 83 in March 2012.


The board noted that the current Executive Director job description needs updating. Dow noted that the Executive Director role is outlined in the IAB charter, and that the Executive Director may be a sitting board member. In the past, the Executive Director role had been used as a sort of de-facto vice chair; however, that has not been the case for several years now. The board noted that returning to this model might be more feasible now with the Secretariat support for the IAB that was added earlier this year.


Dow, Danny, David Kessens, Spencer, Olaf and Cindy will work to revise the current IAB Executive Director job description.


### 9. IETF Liaison to SG 17


Eliot Lear sent an email asking about appointing a Security Liaison Manager to the ITU-T (SG17), and included a draft job description in the email. The board agreed that this was a good idea. Ross will ask Andrei if he is willing to spearhead the candidate search and interview process, with help from Sean as Security Area Director.


### 10. IANA Evolution: Additional discussions with NTIA


Dow asked if the board needed to take any further action regarding the IANA Functions contract at this time; Russ replied that at this stage the board is just waiting for the RFP to be published to see if further action is required.


### 11. Emergency Services Initiative Charter


The Emergency Services Initiative Charter was not discussed due to time constraints.


### 12. Web security/HTTP Evolution


The Web security/HTTP Evolution charter was not discussed due to time constraints.


### 13. Role of IAB in New Work


The board agreed to discuss this topic at the joint meeting with the IESG at IETF 82 in Taipei on Sunday, 13 November. Russ will add this topic to the agenda.


### 14. Interop in Paris


The ETSI-sponsored interoperability event was not discussed due to time constraints. The board will discuss this topic via email.


### 15. All Other Business


Olaf reported that he has been invited to the OpenForum Europe [<http://www.openforumeurope.org/>] meeting, and asked if anyone had more information. Mat and Alissa will check with their internal organizations and respond to Olaf offline.


