
Minutes of the 2011-07-06 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens


##### GUESTS


* Mat Ford


#### 1.2. Agenda


Hannes asked to discuss the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace (NSTIC) NOI, which was covered under “All Other Business.” Additional agenda items on emergency services and the European Commission Information Society were deferred to the board meeting on 13 July 2011.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative issues were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board is currently reviewing the minutes from the 12 May 2011 (IAB Retreat), 22 June 2011 and 29 June 2011 meetings.


### 2. Web Site


Dow reminded Program and Initiative leads to fill in the descriptions on their respective pages on the new web site. Bernard reported that some permissions issues are still being sorted out offline. Olaf is working with Glen Barney at AMS on the plan to transition the new IAB website back to the AMS servers. Descriptions of the IANA Evolution, Privacy and RFC Editor programs are currently online, but only the IANA Evolution program has posted membership info. Andrei noted that the description of the SDO Coordination Program was in progress.


### 3. IETF 81 Schedule


The board discussed plans for the face-to-face meeting time at IETF 81, including spending time interviewing new liaison manager candidates. Bernard asked the board to fill in agenda topics on the IETF 81 wiki page as appropriate to ensure that meetings are not double-booked.


### 4. RFC Editor Program


Joel reported that the RSOC is still discussing hiring a search firm and the statement of work (SOW) for the RSE.


The IAB Call for Comment on “The RFC Editor Model (Version 2)” was sent on 29 June 2011. Joel reported that some comments have been received, and that there are ongoing discussions about use of “the IETF community” versus “the Internet community” in the paragraph on Policy Authority.


### 5. Privacy Program


Alissa reported that plans for the IETF 81 Technical Plenary session on “The Web Privacy Tussle” are progressing, and that she expects to have slides from the invited speakers for review by the end of next week.


### 6. IP Evolution Program


Bernard asked about non-IAB members of the IP Evolution Program; Danny replied that current Program members are all IAB members. The current Program members will discuss potential non-IAB members for the Program and come back to the board with suggestions.


Danny reported that the Anycast Architecture document is ready for IAB Last Call.


Hannes reported that a draft of the Smart Objects workshop report has been published as an internet-draft, and asked the board to provide feedback.


### 7. IANA-Evolution Program


Olaf reported that the IANA Evolution team has drafted a proposed response to the IANA FNOI. Olaf requested that the board send feedback on the proposed response to the IAB list by 8 July 2011. I\* leadership will meet with the joint RIRs on 11 July 2011 to discuss the FNOI.


Ross reported that emails have been exchanged about “ARIN Draft Policy 2011-5: Shared Transition Space” [submitted as internet-draft draft-bdgks-arin-shared-transition-space-00 on 4 July 2011], and that the relevant documents are still in the early stages of review. Danny suggested that people may also want to follow the discussions on the ARIN Public Policy Mailing List [[http://lists.arin.net/mailman/listinfo/arin-ppml](http://lists.arin.net/mailman/listinfo/arin-ppml "ARIN PPML")] to get the ARIN perspective.


### 8. SDO Coordination Program


The board discussed which AD liaison managers were high on the priority list for replacement, and agreed that finding new liaison managers for ITU-T MPLS and ITU-T SG15 were at the top of the list. The board discussed the job description for the liaison managers, and noted that there is potentially a lot of travel involved. The SDO Coordination Program team will talk to the current liaison managers for ITU-T MPLS and ITU-T SG15 about updating the job description.


Andrei reported that the liaison shepherds for 3GPP, IEEE 802.1, ITU-T and W3C have been asked to provide a summary of the current state of the liaison relationship by 12 July 2011.


### 9. All Other Business


Hannes reported that the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace (NSTIC) released a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) on “Models for a Governance Structure for the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace” [[http://www.nist.gov/nstic/nstic-frn-noi.pdf](http://www.nist.gov/nstic/nstic-frn-noi.pdf "NSTIC NOI (PDF)")].


### 10. Conclude Call


