
Minutes of the 2011-07-13 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Jon Peterson
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)


##### GUESTS


* Mat Ford, ISOC


#### 1.2. Agenda


The board agreed to replace agenda item 5 (NSTIC NOI) with an agenda item on the Smart Object Workshop Summary. The NSTIC NOI will be discussed via email.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The board has been asked to provide an IETF delegate to the 2012 ICANN Nomcom. Bernard, Dow and Cindy will start that process.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 22 June 2011 and 29 June 2011 meetings, as well as the minutes of the IAB Retreat (2011-05-12).


### 2. IAB Budget


Bernard presented the IAB budget for the current year. Due to budget constraints, the board agreed to forgo the sponsored working IAB dinner at IETF 81, and instead have a more informal dinner where attendees pay their own way.


Joel and Alissa volunteered to work with Bernard to prioritize the budget.


### 3. IETF 81


Bernard presented the agenda for the face-to-face meeting time at IETF 81. Andrei is finalizing the details for the SDO Coordination meeting on Saturday, 23 July 2011. Alissa and Sean are working to organize a dinner with the Privacy Program and Privacy Directorate.


Alissa asked the board to review the IETF 81 Plenary slides that were sent via email.


### 4. Emergency Services Coordination (e.g. ETSI, EENA/NENA)


Hannes reported that the European Commission (EC) Information Society and Media Directorate-General released a mandate which concluded that there is lack of standards for obtaining location information [see: <http://www.112.be/ressource/static/files/m493_en.pdf>], and asked European SDOs to work in this area. However, this mandate fails to recognize work being done in international standards organizations such as the IETF. The board acknowledged that this oversight may have occurred because the EC does not recognize the IETF as an SDO.


After discussion, the board agreed to send an email to Gerard de Graaf at the EC Information Society and Media Directorate-General with a brief work of the IETF work in this area (ECRIT, GEOPRIV). Hannes will propose text for this email in time for the board to discuss it at IETF 81.


### 5. Smart Objects Workshop Summary


Hannes reported that he is working on a summary of the Smart Objects workshop for the EC. Hannes will draft the summary and post it to the IAB list for feedback.


### 6. Programs and Initiatives


#### 6.1. IAB Public Discussion mailing lists


Dave Thaler led a discussion of public discussion lists for the Programs and Initiatives. After discussion, the board agreed that it depends on the Program/Initiative. The board agreed that any such public discussion lists would be covered by the IETF Note Well. Dow will request the creation of an i18n-discuss@iab.org mailing list for the Internationalization Program.


The board agreed that any Program/Initiative discussion list information should be published on the Program/Initiative’s page on the IAB website.


#### 6.2. IANA Evolution


Olaf reported that the I\* leadership met to discuss responses to the IANA FNOI. The IANA Evolution Program expects to make a final recommendation on the IANA FNOI to the board at IETF 81.


Russ reported that the OPS Area is planning to discuss the ARIN Address Proposal drafts at IETF 81.


#### 6.3. RFC Editor Program


The board briefly discussed the feedback received to date on the RFC 5620bis Call for Comments. Joel will review the feedback received and categorize comments as editorial, substantive or unsupported and send that summary to IAB by 20 July 2011. The board will discuss the document in depth on Sunday at IETF 81.


Joel reported that the RSOC is working on the job description for the RFC Series Editor and would like to refrain from using the phrase “executive management” (as is in the current version of RFC 5620bis).  After discussion, the board agreed that it is comfortable with that change.


#### 6.4. SDO Coordination Program


Andrei reported that he and Spencer have nearly finalized the separation of the ITU-T Coordination Program from the SDO Coordination Program. Andrei will act as lead for the ITU-T Coordination Program, and Spencer will act as lead for the SDO Coordination Program. Andrei asked the board to review the updated charters and proposed members posted on the IAB wiki and provide feedback. Both programs will be discussed on the Saturday meeting at IETF 81.


Ross reported that he is still seeking candidates to replace Adrian Farrel as liaison manager for ITU-T SG15.


#### 6.5 Website


Dow reminded Program and Initiative leads to fill in the descriptions on their respective pages on the new web site so that the new website can be announced during the IETF 81 Plenary. Olaf is working with Glen Barney at AMS on the plan to transition the new IAB website back to the AMS servers.


### 7. AOB


There was no other business.


### 8. Conclude Call


