
Minutes of the 2011-06-22 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1.  Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Danny McPherson


##### GUESTS


* Mat Ford, ISOC


### 1.2.  Agenda


No agenda items were added.


### 1.3.  Administrivia


No administrative issues were discussed.


### 1.4.  Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the meetings of 1 June 2011 and 8 June 2011.  The minutes of the 15 June 2011 meeting and the IAB retreat are still under review.


### 2.  Internationalization Program In-depth


Dave Thaler gave an in-depth review of the current Internationalization Program goals and activities. Internationalization Program goals include:


* Monitoring the state of things in the industry including IETF and  

related orgs like Unicode and ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2
* Providing recommendations to the IAB
* Discussing/reviewing any IAB documents or liaison statements
* Planning any other internationalization efforts desired by the IAB  

(e.g., workshop or plenary)
* Keeping some historical knowledge within a committee of the IAB


Dave gave background information on activities happening in other relevant SDOs.  IETF work on Internationalization is happening with draft-faltstrom-5892bis, draft-ietf-appsawg-3536bis and work in the EAI, IRI and PRECIS working groups.


Current and future work items for the Internationalization Program include:


* Document on “Issues in Identifier Comparison for Security  

Purposes”
* Monitoring work in ICANN, IETF, Unicode, and JTC1/SC2
* Possibly update RFC 2277 “IETF Policy on Character Sets and Languages”


The board briefly discussed the “Issues in Identifier Comparison for Security Purposes” document and agreed that it might be a good topic for the SAAG meeting to discuss at IETF 81.  Sean will coordinate with Stephen Farrell (Security Area co-AD) about getting this topic on the SAAG agenda.


### 3.  Liaison Reports


#### 3.1.  ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
  ISOC's Liaison Report to the IAB
  June 22, 2011
  
  Topics:
  I. World IPv6 Day 
  II. TERENA TNC 2011 
  III. OpenFlow Lab (Interop 2011) 
  IV. W3C Workshop on Identity in the Browser
  V. ICANN meeting Update
  VI. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting

  -------------------------------------
  I. World IPv6 Day - Submitted by Phil Roberts

  On June 8, websites around the world participated in World IPv6 Day by 
  making their main websites reachable over IPv6 for 24 hours. Over 1000 
  organizations contacted ISOC, and we tracked approximately 430 
  websites who turned on IPv6 for the day. Approximately 2/3rds of those 
  websites enabled IPv6 permanently as a result. ISOC was contacted by a 
  number of hosting companies who enabled thousands, tens of thousands, 
  and in one case hundreds of thousands of domains. And many of those 
  either left IPv6 on, or made a plan to enable it permanently in the 
  near term. No major failures were noted and website owners collected 
  lots of useful information about running IPv6 on their websites.

  Major websites participated including Google, Facebook, YouTube, 
  Yahoo! Japan, Bing, Microsoft, BBC, CNN, and AOL.

  Url: http://www.worldipv6day.org/

  II. TERENA TNC 2011 - Submitted by Lucy Lynch

  Karen O'Donoghue presented on "Privacy and the IETF" after 
  consultation with Hannes, who could not attend this meeting.
  https://tnc2011.terena.org/core/presentation/131
  The presentation was well received as noted here: 
  [Building Privacy In](https://myterena.wordpress.com/2011/05/17/building-privacy-in/)

  III. OpenFlow Lab (Interop 2011) - Submitted by Lucy Lynch

  Karen O'Donoghue served as a member of the Interop Networks Operations 
  team. The technology focus for the team this year was an OpenFlow 
  deployment. The technology is still in very early stages but has 
  attracted a lot of vendor attention. This work grows out of leanSlate/
  GENI efforts and there are no current plans to bring the work into the 
  IETF. 

  Internet2 also recently announced a thirty node OpenFlow deployment as 
  part of their next generation efforts:
  http://www.networkworld.com/news/2011/051311-interop-openflow.html
  http://www.internet2.edu/network/ose/

  IV. W3C Workshop on Identity in the Browser - Submitted by Lucy Lynch

  Trent Adams co-chaired the W3C Workshop on Identity in the Browser 
  event which included input from IETF participants related to web 
  security and OAuth:

  "Browser Support for the Open Authorization (OAuth) Protocol" by 
  Hannes Tschofenig, Barry Leiba, Blaine Cook and Rob Van Eijk

  "The Need for a Web Security API" by Sean Turner, Stephen Farrell, 
  Peter Saint-Andre, and Jeff Hodges

  Agenda: http://www.w3.org/2011/identity-ws/agenda.html

  V. ICANN Meeting update - Submitted by Lynn St.Amour

  While the ICANN meeting is still underway, the ICANN Board held a 
  special meeting on Monday June 20th in Singapore to approve the launch 
  of a new gTLD program.  The program will be launched for new 
  applications on Jan 12 , 2012.

  http://www.icann.org/en/announcements/announcement-20jun11-en.htm

  VI. ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting

  The ISOC Board of Trustees is holding its next Board meeting on July 
  30 (afternoon only) and July 31 (full day) 2011, immediately after 
  IETF 81 in Quebec. ISOC Board meetings are open and participation is 
  welcome. The agenda will be posted in late June at:
  http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/meetings.php.
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 3.2.  IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
  SDO Coordination

  - The IETF Chair has been invited to participate in the "Internet of 
    Things" "Global Standards Initiative" (IoT GSI) event, 22-26 August 
    2011, ITU Headquarters, Geneva, Switzerland.

  - The CCAMP Working Group exchanged a liaison with ITU-T SG-15 
    (optical control plane) about a draft for revisions to RFC 5787 
    (OSPFv2 Routing Protocols Extensions for Automatically Switched 
    Optical Network (ASON) Routing).  The liaison asks for review given 
    that the WG is seeking early codepoint assignment.
    (See https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1055/).

  - Two PWE3 Working Group Last Calls were forwarded to ITU-T SG15 Q9, 
    Q10, Q12 and Q14 (see https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1057/).

  - The INT Area organized a reply to the ITU-T Q5/SG-11 liaison 
    requesting review of the most recent revision of the draft 
    Q.Flowstatesig recommendation (see
    https://www.ietf.org/ibin/c5i?mid=6&rid=49&gid=0&k1=933&k2=56667&tid=1308670123).  
    The comment periods end 2011-07-05.

  - IETF/W3C Coordination telecon was held 2011-06-13.  Minutes can be 
    found at found at
    http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-ietf-w3c/2011Jun/0000.html.

  - A draft liaison response to to ITU-T SG17 IPv6 security work items 
    liaison was forwarded to vp6ops, ipv6, and saag mailing lists for 
    review (see 
    http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/saag/current/msg03270.html). 
    After including the review comments, the draft liaison response was 
    forwarded to the ITU-T SG17 Q2/3 folks (informally).  The liaison 
    has been posted (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1059/) and 
    will be formally returned to ITU-T shortly.

  ================
  Working Groups

  Recharters:

  - KITTEN - pending
  - KERBEROS - pending

  New Working Groups:

  - PAWS - approved
  - 6RENUM - pending
  - CDNI - pending

  Closed:

  - VRRP

  BOFs approved for IETF 81

  - HTTPAUTH (Apps)
  - REPUTE (Apps)
  - MULTITRANS (Ops&Man)
  - CICM (Sec)
  - WOES (Sec)
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 3.3.  RFC Editor Liaison


–No RFC Editor Liaison written report was submitted–


#### 3.4.  IRTF Chair


–No IRTF Chair written report was submitted–


### 4.  ARIN /10 Proposal


Olaf reported that the IANA Strategy team has drafted a message to the ARIN board in response to their request for IAB/IESG guidance regarding Draft Policy ARIN-2011-5 (Shared Transition Space for IPv4 Address Extension).  The board approved sending this message to the ARIN board; Bernard will send this message on to the ARIN board on behalf of the IAB.  Ross Callon volunteered to be the point of contact and coordinator for any follow-up.


### 5.  IANA FNOI Response


Olaf reported that the IANA Strategy team has met twice so far to discuss the IANA Functions Further Notice of Inquiry (FNOI); a third call is planned for next week to finish that discussion.  Once the discussion is complete, the IANA Strategy group will draft a response to the FNOI and send it to the board for feedback.


### 6.  Workshop Boilerplate


The board agreed to include the following text in the abstract of all future workshop reports:


Note that this document is a report on the proceedings of the workshop.  The views and positions documented in this report are those of the workshop participants and do not necessarily reflect IAB views and positions.


### 7.  IETF-81 Agenda


Bernard reported that one of the invited plenary speakers would not be able to travel to Quebec City by Monday, and asked if it would make sense to try to move the Technical Plenary to Thursday.  Dave pointed out that the World IPv6 Day report scheduled for the Technical Plenary would be better if it was delivered at the beginning of the week.  After discussion, the board agreed to keep the Technical Plenary on Monday.


Bernard asked the board for agenda items for the Sunday and Tuesday sessions at IETF 81.  The board agreed to spend some time Sunday afternoon discussing SDO Coordination during the joint meeting with the IESG.


### 8.  IAB Job Description for NOMCOM


Bernard reported that he updated the current IAB job description for the NomCom to include more information about the Program Lead responsibilities.  Bernard asked the board to review the job description and provide feedback.  The IAB job description will be discussed further at the board meeting on 29 June 2011.


### 9.  AOB


#### 9.1 Website Update


Dow reported that content is live on the new IAB website, but that some Program and Initiative pages are still blank.  Cindy offered to update those pages if the Program/Initiative leads send her the text.


The current plan is to transition the website back to the AMS servers next week and announce the new website to the community on or around 8 July 2011.


#### 9.2 RSE Search Committee Update


Joel reported that the RSOC made a request to the IAOC for funding to hire an outside search firm.  The RSOC and the IAOC are discussing this, and the statement of work (SOW) for the search firm is being refined.


Joel also reported that a revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 was sent to the board and the RSOC on Monday (20 June 2011) for review.  The new revision reorganizes the document’s structure based on earlier comments by the IAOC and clarifies the vendor selection process. Joel has requested feedback by Monday, 27 June 2011.


### 10.  Conclude Call


