
Minutes of the 2011-11-30 Teleconference:
-----------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Ross Callon
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear (present through item 3 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


An agenda item on ICANN’s request for an IAB response to the IANA RFP Appendix J form was initially added to the agenda under All Other Business, but the topic was covered under section 6 (Report from the I\* Leaders meeting)


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of 26 October 2011, 2 November 2011 and 13 November 2011 business meetings.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison Written Report–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
16 November 2011

Topics:          
I.    2012 ITU Conference
II.   MPLS
III.  Internet Governance
IV.   London Conference on Cybersecurity
V.    OECD
VI.   WIPO
VII.  Meeting of the ISOC and ICANN Boards

I.  2012 ITU Conferences

WCIT 2012: Sally Wentworth is pursuing ISOC's engagement plan. A 
membership mailing list has been created for Advisory Council members 
and Chapter members who are interested in the 2012 ITU conferences.  
We will use these lists to keep the membership informed about 
developments with respect to WTSA and WCIT and to seek input as 
appropriate. In addition, ISOC will aim to make a submission to the 
February ITU CWG WCIT preparatory meeting. Plans are also to integrate 
ongoing messaging on Open Standards and IETF awareness into WCIT 
preparations and building support for a common statement from 
standards bodies on voluntary standards. Finally, regarding the 
regional preparations:

- Asia Pacific – Sally attended the APT meetings for WTSA and WCIT in 
  Manila (24-28 October).  There will be 2 more meetings in 2012.
- Americas – Sebastian Bellagamba is fully integrated into CITEL 
  preparations – next meeting in Dec 2011.
- Africa – Dawit Bekele will attend the ATU preparatory meeting in 
  Cairo in November
- CIS Countries – Andrei Robachevsky is helping us find a way to 
  participate in the RCC meetings
- Europe – CEPT is the main body.  We are determining whether and to 
  what extent we should participate.

II. MPLS:

China gained regional support from the APT for the ITU MPLS work (G.
8113.1) during the Manila meeting. Markus met the UK government team 
dealing with MPLS in London on 31 October. They are preparing a 
response, rejecting both standards, and will put it on the agenda of 
the EU High-Level Group on Internet Governance on 15 November.

ITU-T workshop on Service Delivery Platforms (SDP): Nicolas Seidler 
attended. The objective of the ITU was to learn more and identify key 
requirements for SDP in terms of standardization, increase 
collaboration and synergy among standards organizations and identify 
future working priorities, directions and actions. The ITU concluded 
on a consensus for the development of an SDP roadmap for its work 
going forward. Nicolas also monitored ITU-T SG 13 (21 October 2011): 
This SG focuses on future networks and Next Generation Networks (NGN). 
The study group will soon start discussing its study plan for the 
years 2012-2016. This process should be finalized at the TSAG meeting 
in July 2012.

III.  Internet Governance:

CSTD WG on Improvements to the IGF (31 October – 2 November):  
Constance Bommelaer participated in the CSTD Working Group meeting. A 
new chair has been appointed, Peter Major (Hungary). The challenge is 
to reestablish a climate of trust among the delegates and avoid 
getting blocked by procedural discussions. These discussions happened 
in conjunction with the UN General Assembly (GA) meeting where India 
is pushing a resolution proposing the creation of a new UN entity in 
charge of Internet-related public policy issues. At this stage, the 
best victory for the multi-stakeholder principle would be to unlock 
the discussion within the UN CSTD WG on IGF, and to be successful in 
producing a common outcome, based on open and inclusive discussions. 
Alternatively, formulating decisions on how to improve the IGF will 
fall back into the hands of governments only. Two more meetings are 
scheduled, in January and February 2012.

WSIS 2014: Constance has also been monitoring discussions of the UN 
Group on the Information Society (UNGIS) and the ITU Council relating 
to preparations for WSIS 2014. The Council WG on WSIS was a 
frustrating experience. It seems that the summary of the chair does 
not really reflect the content of the discussions, i.e. that the 
spirit of the room was to let the GA decide on the WSIS+10 review 
process instead of the ITU and that was not noted anywhere. Instead 
there was a great focus on ITU's leadership and holding of a high 
level event/summit. Informal coordination with friendly delegations 
allowed however to feed them with ISOC’s contributions and positions 
in the WSIS 2014 preparatory process.

IV.  London Conference on Cyberspace (London, 1-2 November 2011):

Markus Kummer attended this conference, organized by the UK Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office. According to well-informed sources the 
conference goes back to a fairly spontaneous offer by the UK Foreign 
Secretary at the Munich Security Conference. To begin with, it was 
supposed to focus on 'cybersecurity', but in the course of the 
planning it gradually widened its scope. The idea to open it up to 
non-governmental stakeholder participants was introduced relatively 
late in the preparations. The UK branch of the International Chamber 
of Commerce was tasked with the invitation of non-governmental 
stakeholders (which explains the preponderance of business 
representatives, compared to those from the technical community and 
civil society.) The organizers to a large extent presented the event 
as the first of its kind, ignoring all preceding discussions in WSIS 
and IGF. There were no new insights, but Hungary and South Korea 
offered to host follow-up conferences in 2012 and 2013.

V.  OECD:

OECD ICCP meeting (27-28 October, Paris): Constance Bommelaer, 
Christine Runnegar and Nicolas Seidler coordinated Internet Technical 
Advisory Committee's participation, reviewing documents and preparing 
interventions. Two documents were considered by the ICCP - a draft 
Council Recommendation on Principles for Internet Policy Making and a 
draft Council Recommendation on the role of Internet Intermediaries in 
Advancing Public Policy Objectives. Formal coordination with ITAC 
members and informal coordination with Business and Civil Society was 
conducted prior to the meeting.

OECD Foresight Forum 2011 (26 October, Paris): This year's Forum 
focused on developments in mobile communications, exploring major 
developments that are currently shaping mobile communication and will 
shape it for the coming 5-10 years. ISOC supported the participation 
of two fellows, who obtained speaking slots and opportunities to 
publish their papers on the OECD website.

VI.  WIPO:

WIPO SCT (24-28 October, Geneva): Christine Runnegar and Nicolas 
Seidler attended the 26th session of the Standing Committee on the Law 
of Trademarks, Industrial Designs and Geographical Indications. This 
session of SCT considered the modalities for an information meeting 
next year on Internet intermediaries. ISOC presented itself at the 
meeting and proposed that such a meeting include information for SCT 
member states on the operation, use, and development of the Internet, 
as well as the services provided by different types of Internet 
intermediaries and other Internet actors. The WIPO Secretariat should 
produce a merger of the various proposals, to be discussed further.

VII.  Meeting of the ISOC and ICANN Boards:

The ISOC Board of Trustees and the ICANN Board had a meeting in Dakar, 
Senegal to discuss areas of possible cooperation. The meeting was held 
in a good spirit and showed a large convergence of views on most 
issues of common interest. As a concrete outcome both Boards agreed to 
look into ways of pooling resources for facilitating remote 
participation in relevant meetings.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Written Report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


Sean briefly highlighted a few items from his forthcoming written report:


–Begin IESG Liaison Written Report–



```
=================
SDO Coordination

- The CODEC WG responded to an ITU-T SG 16 Q8, 9, and 10/16 liaison
  about the OPUS code (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1107/).

- The CODEC WG responded to a 3GPP SA WG4 liaison about on Speech and
  Audio Coding Standardization 
  (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1111/).

- The CCAMP WG responded to ITU-T Q14/15 liaison about OSPFv2 
  extensions for ASON Routing 
  (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1112/).

- The IESG provided provided a liaison that draws the attention of the
  SG15 attention to an email from the IETF Chair, Mr. Russ Housley, to 
  the TSB Director, Mr. Malcolm Johnson
  (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1115/).

- The MPLS WG provided a liaison to ITU-T SG15, Q9, Q10, Q12 and Q14 
  to announce the completion of RFCs needed for G.8113.2
  (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1113/).

- Glenn Parson send a message on behalf of the IEEE RAC to the OPSAWG
  list regarding the impact of virtualization on MAC48 address
  consumption.  A few IESG members are discussing whether to use the
  liaison process to develop a formal input to the IEEE RAC on this 
  question.

- The OPS Area Directors received a liaison from the Next Generation
  Mobile Networks (NGMN) forum which are preparing a requirements 
  document (130+pages) on Next Generation Converged Operations 
  Requirements (NGCOR) and is discussing creating a joint working 
  group to progress requirements for converged management of fixed 
  mobile networks. Scott Mansfield presented this activity in the open 
  OPS area meeting at IETF-82, and committed to make available the 
  document for review and comments to the OPS area participants.

- 3 liaisons were received from ITU-T.  SG 12 sent two (codecs) and SG
  13 sent one (Future Networks).

=================
Working Groups

New:
- repute (Apps)

Recharter:
- ipfix

Closed:
- speermint (RAI)
- yam (Apps)

Chairs:
- XRBLOCK New co-chair: Shida Schubert

Interim Meetings:
- n/a
```

–End IESG Liaison Written Report–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


Olaf reported that the IAOC is currently in contract negotiations with the selected RFC Series Editor candidate, and expects that the new RSE will be announced shortly.


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


No IRTF Chair report was submitted.


### 3. ITU-T Coordination Program Report


Eliot Lear reported on the current activity in the ITU-T Coordination Program. The ITU-T Liaison team is preparing for the Study Group 15 meeting being held 5-16 December 2011, where they expect to discuss approving G.8113.1 and G.8113.2.  During these discussions, the team intends to encourage safe and proper standards development through the use of IETF processes that must be followed for codepoint allocations.


The ITU-T Liaison team is also preparing for the Telecommunication Standardization Advisory Group (TSAG) meeting being held 10-13 January 2012, where they expect to discuss collaboration amongst standards bodies.


Eliot asked if the board had any objections to the ITU-T Liaison team holding a meeting at ISOC’s facility in Reston, Virginia in January; the board had no objections.


### 4. Smart Object Workshop Report: Call for Approval


Bernard will start an email vote to call for approval on draft-iab-smart-object-workshop on 2 December 2011.


### 5. Privacy Terminology Document: Call for Adoption


The board agreed to adopt draft-hansen-privacy-terminology as an IAB-stream document. The next step will be to re-submit the draft as draft-iab-privacy-terminology.


### 6. Report from the I\* Leaders Meeting


Bernard, Russ and Olaf attended a meeting of I\* leadership in Miami on 29-30 November 2011. The meeting included participants from RIRs, ICANN, ISOC, and the W3C. Discussion topics included interactions with governments and the IANA RFP.


A revised IANA RFP/SoW was issued on 17 November that included an additional 20 pages of text, as well as revised terms and conditions and other editorial changes, including revisions to Section C.2.11. It was noted that protocol parameters are not listed as a “deliverable” within Section F.3, so that the assumption is that there should be minimal workflow changes.


ICANN requested that the IAB provide a response to the IANA RFP Appendix J form; the IANA Strategy team will propose a response for the IAB before the deadline on 19 December 2011.


### 7. December 7 Tech Chat


After confirming that an ex parte filing would not be required, the board agreed to invite Henning Schulzrinne to speak at an IAB Techchat on “Technology & Regulation” on 7 December 2011. Hannes will follow up with Henning directly.


### 8. IAB mailing lists


Cindy referred the board to an earlier email from Dow that outlined the various IAB mailing lists hosted on iab.org, ietf.org and i1b.org. Cindy volunteered to organize and post this information on the internal IAB wiki. Once the information has been posted to the wiki, Olaf and Dave Thaler will review it and make a recommendation to the board about any mailing lists that can be moved or closed.


### 9. Filtering and Blocking


The board discussed a potential IAB statement on Filtering and Blocking. Olaf will ask Richard Barnes for suggested concepts that such a statement would cover, and Alissa will investigate when the appropriate timeframe to make such a statement would be.


### 10. All Other Business


There was no other business, and the board moved into Executive Session.


### 11. Executive Session: Executive Director Transition


The board discussed the Executive Director transition plan in an executive session. A solicitation for the Executive Director position will be sent to the ietf-announce list.


### 12. Executive Session: RSE Appointment Announcement


The board discussed the RSE appointment announcement in an executive session.


### 13. Executive Session: ISE Contract


The board discussed the ISE contract in an executive session. The board agreed to solicit input on the ISE’s performance from the rfc-interest list.


