
Minutes of the 2011-09-07 IAB Teleconference (Techchat)
-------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Andrei Robachevsky


##### GUESTS


* Jari Arkko
* Tom Phinney
* Pascal Thubert


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on the Letter to the EC on Emergency Services was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


No meeting minutes were discussed during this call. The minutes of the IETF 81 Technical Plenary, the 10 August 2011 business meeting and the 24 August 2011 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Techchat on IP for Industrial Networks


Hannes invited Jari Arkko, Tom Phinney and Pascal Thubert to the meeting to lead a discussion on IP for Industrial Networks. Pascal and Tom presented a series of slides with the following abstract:



> Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) are gaining market acceptance in  
> 
> numerous industrial segments because they are both cheaper and  
> 
> faster to deploy than traditional wired field-buses. Wireless  
> 
> Sensor Networks can also enable incremental value from a variety of  
> 
> additional usages by leveraging the entire network to connect the  
> 
> sensors to a centralized controlling application for supervisory  
> 
> control or logging.
> 
> 
> However, a number of issues are raised when it comes to integrating  
> 
> a proprietary network operated by Process Control (PC) with tight  
> 
> response time and availability constraints, into a wider, more  
> 
> complex Information Technology (IT) network that already supports a  
> 
> large number of applications with wireless, switched and IP  
> 
> technologies.
> 
> 


The presentation included an overview of several wireless industrial SDOs, including the International Society of Automation (ISA) [[http://www.isa.org/](http://www.isa.org/ "ISA")] and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) [[http://www.iec.ch/](http://www.iec.ch/ "IEC")]. Work in the ISA100.11a Working Group relates to some of the work done in the IETF 6LOWPAN Working Group. To date, the IETF has not had much contact with either the IEC or the ISA; the board will investigate ways to reach out to these organizations.


The presentation concluded that wireless and IPv6 will probably be the first IETF technologies to reach industrial floors, but that more work must be done.


After the presentation, the board discussed using the Internet of Things in Industrial Networks as the plenary topic for IETF 82, and agreed to make a final decision at the board meeting on 21 September 2011.


### 3. Letter to EC on Emergency Services


The board discussed the proposed letter to the European Commission on Emergency Services. Olaf and Joel suggested that changes be made to the letter in order to clarify the IAB’s intended purpose without asking for an open-ended action item. Olaf, Joel and Spencer will revise the letter based on this discussion.


### 4. Conclude Call


