
Minutes of the 2011-07-26 IAB Meeting, Quebec City, Canada
----------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford, ISOC (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### APOLOGIES


* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


### 2. Documents Completing Public Comment, part II


#### 2.1 draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications, “Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast”


Danny reported that he is working to incorporate comments from Bernard and Dave Thaler into the next revision of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications. The next revision will be sent to the board for final review by the end of the week.


#### 2.2 draft-iab-extension-recs, “Design Considerations for Protocol Extensions”


Bernard reported that there are three open issues on draft-iab-extension-recs, and that revisions are ongoing. A revision  

will be submitted this week, reflecting a partial resolution of outstanding comments.


#### 2.3 draft-iab-dns-applications, “Architectural Considerations on Application Features in the DNS”


Jon reported that a new version of draft-iab-dns-applications was posted in early July, and that more feedback has already been received from the community. The document remains under discussion in order to resolve the open issues.


### 3. New Documents, part II


#### 3.1 draft-iab-privacy-workshop, “Privacy Workshop Report”


Alissa reported that draft-iab-privacy-workshop is in the process of being revised to address open issues about system dependencies and to clarify representations of things said during the workshop.


#### 3.2 draft-iab-smart-object-workshop, “Smart Object Workshop Report”


Hannes reported that version -01 of draft-iab-smart-object-workshop has been submitted. There is still an open issue on RPL that is in the process of being resolved, but the document is expected to be ready for IAB Last Call once the next revision is posted.


### 4. Program Items


The discussions on Program items were deferred to a future IAB meeting due to time constraints.


