
Minutes of the 2011-05-04 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1.  Attendance


**PRESENT**  

Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)  

Ross Callon  

Alissa Cooper  

Spencer Dawkins  

Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)  

David Kessens  

Olaf Kolkman  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)  

Jon Peterson  

Lynn St. Amour (ISOC Liaison)  

Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)  

Dave Thaler


**APOLOGIES**  

Joel Halpern  

Russ Housley (IETF Chair)  

Danny McPherson  

Andrei Robachevsky  

Hannes Tschofenig  

Sean Turner


#### 1.2.  Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3.  Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4.  Meeting Minutes


There were two sets of minutes under review for final approval.  The  

minutes of the 2011-04-13 business meeting were approved with two  

changes.  The board also approved the transcript from the IETF 80  

plenary for inclusion in that meeting’s proceedings.


Dow asked the board to review the minutes of the 2011-04-27 business  

meeting so that they can be approved at the next meeting.


### 2.  IETF 81 Technical Plenary


Alissa reported that the plenary preparations are ongoing.  The board  

discussed various options as to how to structure the panel session, and  

agreed that the panel should include someone to talk about legal,  

regulatory and/or policy aspects of privacy (possibly a Canadian DPA);  

someone to talk about the identification/re-identification/  

fingerprinting aspect of privacy; someone to talk about the  

communications aspect of privacy; and someone to give the IETF  

perspective.  Alissa and Hannes are pursuing various contacts and will  

be extending invitations to potential speakers soon.


### 3.  IESG Retreat Review


Olaf reported that at the IESG retreat last week (2-3 May 2011), there  

was a discussion about IETF interaction with other SDOs.  The consensus  

of that discussion was that in certain cases, it would be beneficial for  

the IAB to take more of a leadership role.  Olaf let the IESG know that  

the IAB is currently working on how to better manage these interactions  

as part of the SDO Coordination Program.  The board discussed Olaf’s  

report, and agreed to delve into this further at the upcoming IAB  

retreat.


### 4.  Status of Programs and Initiatives


The board deferred specific discussions about the Programs and  

Initiatives in order to spend more time structuring how those topics  

will be addressed at the upcoming IAB retreat.  (See 5 below.)


The board discussed planning a series of conference calls for further  

discussion of the Programs and Initiatives after the IAB retreat.  Dow  

will send an email to the board to confirm the best dates for these  

calls.


Programs:


#### 4.1.  Privacy Program 
4.2.  Internationalization Program 
4.3.  RFC Editor Program 
4.4.  IANA Evolution Program 
4.5.  SDO Coordination Program


Initiatives:


#### 4.6.  IP Evolution 
4.7.  DNS 
4.8.  IPv6 for IAB Business (inc. IPv6 day) 
4.9.  HTTP/Web Evolution


Actions:


#### 4.10.  Evaluate Mapping of IAB Website and IAB Communication Processes


### 5.  Retreat Planning and Agenda


Bernard presented the most recent version of the retreat agenda to the  

board.  The board discussed whether to spend time at the retreat  

discussing the various Programs and Initiatives, or whether that time  

should be re-allocated to allow more time for other discussions.  The  

board was concerned about finding the right balance of policy  

discussions and technical discussions for the retreat agenda.  After  

consideration, the board agreed to include some of the Programs and  

Initiatives on the retreat agenda in order to spend time advancing some IAB documents that  

were “almost ready for publication”. The board also decided to spend some  

time at the retreat on planning for the IETF 81 plenary.


### 6.  Meeting with W3C TAG


Bernard reported that the W3C TAG will not be able to meet with the board in  

Quebec City.  Bernard is following up with the W3C to try and schedule  

an audio or video conference instead.


### 7.  Action Item Review


Cindy reported that she has contacted several board members for updates  

about the current status of their action items, and that progress has  

been made in getting that list updated.  Dow briefly went through the  

remaining action items and asked for updates; as a result, several more  

actions were marked as either done or overtaken by events.


### 8.  All Other Business (AOB)


There was no other business.


### 9.  Conclude Call


