
Minutes of the 2011-10-12 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 21 September 2011 and 28 September 2011 business meetings.


### 2. IETF 82 Schedule


Bernard asked the board to review the draft IAB agenda for IETF 82. Current agenda items include:


* Sunday: Area and IRTF hot spots (joint with IESG); the IAB role in new work (joint with IESG); RSOC report; review of RFC Series Editor Model v2 & ISE model, workshop report and privacy considerations documents
* Monday: Technical plenary
* Tuesday: IANA RFP/SoW review; review of other documents
* Thursday: RSE confirmation; IRTF RG review
* Friday: RSE confirmation (if necessary)


### 3. IETF 82 Plenary


Hannes reported that all of the speakers have been confirmed for the IETF 82 Plenary panel session, but he is still waiting to hear back if ISOC would like to participate as well. Hannes is planning conference calls with the speakers to work out the final details.


### 4. Emergency Services Initiative Charter


Hannes asked the board to review the most recent version of the Emergency Services Initiative charter. Hannes will work with Dow to set up a mailing list for the initiative and schedule a kick-off conference call with the initiative members.


### 5. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative Charter


Discussion of the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative charter was deferred to the next IAB business meeting on 26 October 2011.


### 6. Update on SG17 Liaison


Andrei reported that there are not currently any IETF participants who are active in SG17. Andrei will review the recent developments in SG17 and report back on any potential areas of overlap.


### 7. Document status


#### 7.1. Adoption of draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa asked the board to review draft-iab-privacy-considerations (previously draft-morris-privacy-considerations) by 19 October so that it can be adopted as an IAB stream document before the -00 draft deadline on 24 October 2011.


#### 7.2. draft-iab-privacy-workshop


The board agreed to review draft-iab-privacy-workshop by 19 October in order to call for final approval at the meeting on 26 October 2011.


#### 7.3. draft-iab-smart-object-workshop


Hannes reported that he is working on adding the workshop participant names to draft-iab-smart-object-workshop, as raised in a previous review comment.


#### 7.4. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Danny reported that he is working to address the open issues on draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications and hopes to post the new revision shortly, so that the document can go to community-wide review.


#### 7.5. draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 and draft-iab-ise-model


Neville resolved the remaining two issues on draft-iab-ise-model and so the document has gone to IAB last call, which will end by the next business meeting on 26 October 2011. 20 issues remain open on draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2.


#### 7.6. draft-iab-identifier-comparisons


Dave Thaler reported that he is requesting time on the APPSAWG agenda at IETF 82 to discuss draft-iab-identifier-comparisons, and that the document will be updated based on the outcome of that discussion.


#### 7.7. draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon reported that draft-iab-dns-applications still requires another revision.


### 8. Summary – NANOG CGN meeting


Sean reported that he attended the NANOG meeting on Carrier Grade NAT (CGN) and Law Enforcement Obligations. Presentations focussed on ISP logging, compression and storage of data that may be subpoenaed by law enforcement agencies. There are privacy implications with keeping those logs; the board agreed that there may be future work in this area for the Privacy Program and IP Evolution Initiative, although there is no explicit IAB action needed at this time.


### 9. IANA RFP/SOW


The IANA RFP/SoW is expected to issue within the next few weeks. Since the response period will overlap with IETF 82, it is not expected that NTIA personnel will be attending.


### 10. RSE Confirmation schedule


Olaf reported that the RSOC expects to select an RSE candidate by 16 November 2011. The board will set aside time for a confirmation discussion during the Thursday breakfast session and if necessary, discussion during a Friday breakfast might also be possible. Time has also been set aside during Sunday Afternoon for the IAB to talk with Fred Baker about the RSE confirmation process.


### 11. All Other Business (AOB)


#### 11.1. Executive Director Job Description


The board discussed the Executive Director job description, and agreed that there are four potential models:


1. Executive Director not an IAB Member; status quo
2. Executive Director an IAB member, with additional Secretariat  

support.
3. Executive Director an IAB Member; chair-in-training
4. Executive Director role transitioned to the Secretariat


Dow will summarize the various directions the job description could take, and ask the board to provide pros and cons.


#### 11.2. Current IAB Member Activities


Dave Thaler asked the board members to update their entries on the Current IAB Member Activities wiki page so that the information can be shared with the NomCom.


#### 11.3. DNS Initiative Members


Dave Thaler pointed out the DNS Initiative members listed on the public web page do not match what is on the internal wiki; Jon will investigate that and correct accordingly.


