
Minutes of the 2011-12-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Jon Peterson


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear (present through agenda item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Dow confirmed the schedule of upcoming IAB meetings. The board will meet on 21 December 2011 and 4 January 2012. The board will not meet on 28 December 2011.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the 15 November 2011 business meeting, and approved the minutes of the 30 November 2011 business meeting pending edits to be made by Cindy. The minutes of the 17 November 2011 business meeting and the IETF 82 technical plenary remain under discussion.


### 2. ITU-T Coordination Program


Eliot reported that Scott Mansfield is leading the IETF delegation to the Study Group 15 meeting currently being held in Geneva. The SG15 agenda includes discussing the approval of G.8113.1 and G.8113.2; a decision is not expected until the very end of the meeting (scheduled to end 16 December 2011). The IETF delegation position is to encourage safe and proper standards development through the use of IETF processes that must be followed for codepoint allocations. Eliot will report back to the board on the outcome of the SG15 meeting at the next IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011.


Eliot reported that the ITU-T Liaisons are planning a retreat for 31 January – 2 February 2012. The IAB is invited to attend this retreat, and arrangements are being made for remote participation.


### 3. EU Standardization


Olaf reported that the European Commission is in the process of evaluating its ICT standardization policy. Proposed regulation on its way to the European Parliament would allow for recognition of certain approved standards from global fora and consortia in formal EU documents, even if those global fora and consortia are not recognized as formal standards bodies by the EC. The decisions about which standards to accept will be made by a Technical Committee on EU Consortia and Fora. A seat on this committee is being reserved for IETF/ISOC. After discussion, the board agreed to use the address of ISOC’s office in Geneva as the destination for the official invitation to the committee.


### 4. IANA Evolution Program


The board discussed the IAB response to the IANA RFP Appendix J form. The board agreed to send the form to NTIA pending final edits to be made by Bernard. Bernard will send the form on behalf of the board with an IAB cover letter by both email and regular mail before the deadline on 19 December 2011.


### 5. Document update


#### 5.1. Smart Object Workshop Report


The Smart Object Workshop Report discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


#### 5.2. RFC Editor Model v2


The RFC Editor Model V2 discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


#### 5.3. ISE Model


The ISE Model discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


### 6. Emergency Services Program


The Emergency Services Program discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


### 7. Executive Director Transition


Bernard gave an update on the response to the Executive Director solicitation. Additional discussion of the Executive Director transition was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


### 8. Browser IDN Policy


The Browser IDN Policy discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


### 9. Global TA List


The Global TA List discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


### 10. AOB


There was no other business, and the board moved into an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session


#### 11.1. ISE Evaluation


The board reviewed ISE performance in an executive session.


#### 11.2. IAB Mailing List Retention Policy


IAB Mailing List Retention Policy discussion was deferred to the IAB teleconference on 21 December 2011 due to time constraints.


