
Minutes of the 2012-10-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Jon Peterson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The board confirmed that they would not meet on 17 October or 31 October. The next IAB Business Meeting will be on 24 October 2012.


#### 1.3. Action item review


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 October 2012 tech chat and business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison (Mat Ford)


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
24 September 2012

Topics:
I. IETF Journal online updates
II. CEPT meeting on WCIT
III. ENISA
IV. OECD Internet Technical Advisory Committee
V. Berlin Conference on the "Internet and Human Rights"
VI. CITEL ISOC Sponsored Internet Standards Seminar
VII. CITEL PCC1 WCIT and WTSA Discussions

I. IETF Journal online updates
IETF Journal content is now being published online as soon as it has
been edited and approved for publication by the Editorial Board. This
will help to make the content more timely, and will increase the
frequency of IETF Journal social media announcements.

II. CEPT meeting on WCIT
The European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications
Administrations (CEPT) held a preparatory meeting for WCIT-12 and
WTSA-12 in Copenhagen, on 10-14 September 2012. The aim was to
finalize as many European Common Positions (ECPs) as possible. Many
positions have firmed up, but some issues remain to be further
discussed (e.g. whether to use the term Recognized Operating Agencies,
or simply Operating Agencies, which can have an impact on the scope of
the treaty). ETNO was present at the meeting with a delegation of six
persons, headed by chair Luigi Gambardella, to advocate for their
positions on QoS and Sender-Network-Party-Pays, with specific text
submitted. ISOC was represented by Nicolas Seidler who presented the
ISOC paper on IP-Interconnection and directly addressed the ETNO
proposals. There was a lively debate, and while some CEPT countries
are reserving their position for the next CEPT meeting, a majority of
countries have rejected the inclusion of ETNO's text. The last CEPT
meeting before Dubai will be held in Istanbul on 15-18 October.

III. ENISA
ISOC, represented by Constance Bommelaer, participated for the first
time in a meeting of the European Network and Information Security
Agency’s Permanent Stakeholders’ Group (PSG). The meeting was held in
Athens on 13-14 September 2012. The aim of the group is to signal
cyber security trends to ENISA's Board, composed of EU Member States.
The following key issues have been identified by past PSG members for
2013: 1/Evolving risk environment and opportunities 2/ Improving Pan-
European CIIP & Resilience 3/ Supporting the CERT and other
operational communities. In 2012-2013, the group's mandate will be to
draft the agency's work program for 2014.

IV. OECD Internet Technical Advisory Committee
ISOC is leading coordination of the OECD Internet Technical Advisory
Committee (ITAC) for the 2012 Technology Foresight Forum (22 October).
The Forum will focus this year on "Big Data". The annual ITAC meeting
is organized back to back with the Forum and will gather
representatives from all ITAC members as well as high-level OECD staff
and representatives from other stakeholder groups. Discussions will
focus on key Internet-related OECD issues of interest to ITAC
organizations (IPv6, Security, Privacy, etc.), continuing to
professionalize ITAC (coordination mechanisms, website,
communications, etc.) and leveraging its influence within the OECD.

V. Berlin Conference on the "Internet and Human Rights" (Berlin, 13-14
September 2012)
This conference provided a space for multi­‐stakeholder dialogue on the
issue of Internet and Human Rights, bringing together about 100
participants from civil society, governments, private sector, academia
and technology experts. Except for the plenaries and keynote speeches,
all meetings were held under the Chatham House Rule to allow for open
and frank exchange. Nicolas Seidler shared ISOC's experience in a
session about "Human Rights and Internet Governance: Institutional
Players and the Multi-­Stakeholder Approach".

VI. CITEL ISOC Sponsored Internet Standards Seminar
ISOC coordinated an Internet Standards Seminar for CITEL to provide an
opportunity for Latin American delegates to be introduced to the IETF,
W3C and IEEE standards organizations. The seminar was a resounding
success. There were two panels; the first was comprised of Internet
Standards Development Organizations, who provided an overview of their
organization and their standards development process, the second panel
contained industry and vendors (Google, Ericsson, LACNIC, Globant, and
ATIS) to explain the value of standards adoption to their
organizations. Steve Mills (IEEE) introduced the Open Standards
principals and the value this collaboration will provide to future
Internet innovation. Governments in Latin America were very interested
in having the panel’s SDOs contribute to their knowledge and
development process.

VII. CITEL PCC1 WCIT and WTSA Discussions
The ETNO proposals were introduced by Telefonica Argentina but there
was no discussion afterwards. ISOC also presented its IP
Interconnection paper. It appears that CITEL will not be providing any
support for the ETNO proposal at WCIT. There are other regional
positions under discussion: mobile roaming charges were the main theme
of discussions; conformance testing, to include IPv6 testing was not
supported; the need for extensive cybersecurity text in the ITRs was
not accepted; the TSAG Recommendation for Resolution 178 on the
Internet Study Group will move forward as a regional position to
support the creation of a Joint Coordination Activity rather than a
new Study Group; the proposal to create a regional Study Group 2 on
Numbering, Naming and Addressing appears to be heading towards WTSA
for support.
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison (Robert Sparks)


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
IESG liaison report (covering Sep 5 to Oct 10): 

  Working Groups 
    Creation: 
      - The RMCAT (RTP Media Congestion Avoidance Techniques) was 
        formed.

    Rechartering: 
      - A revised charter for BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding Detection) 
        is in internal review
      - A revised charter for OPSAWG (Operations and Management Area 
        Working Group) is in external review
      - Revised charters for the following working groups were approved:
           * NETCONF (Network Configuration)
           * HTTPBIS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Bis)

    Conclusion: 
      - The DECADE (Decoupled Application Data Enroute) was closed 
         without finishing its chartered work.
         The WG Action announcement is at <[link](http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg10713.html "Conclusion of DECADE WG")>

  BOFs Approved for IETF 85:
    - Web PKI operations BOF (WPKOPS)
    - Interface to the Routing System BOF (IRS)
    - Internet Video Codec BOF (VIDEOCODEC)
    - Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring BOF (SACM)
    - Certificate Transparency BOF (CERTRANS) - not working group 
      forming
    - Extensions to the Bonjour protocol suite BOF (MDNSEXT)
    - Fixed Mobile Convergence BOF (FMC)
    - HTTP Authentication Mechanisms BOF (HTTPAUTH)
    - RFC Format BOF (RFCFORM) - not working group forming     

  SDO Coordination:
    Please see <http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/>
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison (Heather Flanagan)


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report–



```
1. RSE Report

Update on Active Projects
* RFC Format
draft-rfc-format-flanagan-00.txt has been posted and discussion is
underway on the rfc-interest list. So far, the conversation has been
reasonably focused, without the wide-ranging discussions that
characterized the Format discussion earlier this year. We will be
reviewing the requirements in Atlanta. A BoF for that discussion has
been approved.

* RFC Style Guide
The first draft of the Style Guide received some extensive comments
from the RSAG which are being incorporated before publication as an I-
D. This is still on target to be released by October 12, 2012.

Other items of note:
* New Stream(s)
The RSOC has indicated that the exploration and consideration of new
streams from beyond the I* communities to be a low priority at this
time.

* 'Status of This Memo' modifications
The IAB recently modified the 'Status of This Memo' options (as
defined in RFC 5741) for RFCs in the IAB stream. The IESG is
considering a modification to IETF stream RFCs. It may be time to
consider a review of RFC 5741.

* Trustees and the TLP
Two items have gone before the Trustees regarding copyright text in
and around code within an RFC and derivative work boilerplate options
as they apply (or not) to the IRTF. These discussions are still in
progress.

* TLP as it applies to Alternate Streams
The IRTF is confused that the IRTF Stream seems to be prohibited from
using the pre-5378 copyright variants that the IETF Stream permits --
specifically, 6.c.iii from the TLP. We will suggest that this be
addressed in the Copyright FAQ (available from
http://trustee.ietf.org/faqs.html). These discussions are still in
progress.

2. RFC Production Center

SLA and Stats
* Percentage of total documents published with an RFC Editor time of
30 business days or less:
Aug: 62% (5% below compliance)
Sep: 80% (100% compliance)

Average RFCed time for docs in queue (as of 1 October): 3.7 weeks

Publication rate for September is unusually low. We attribute this to
the large number of clusters being processed.

As of 10/4
22 docs in RFC-EDITOR
6 of these docs comprise 2 clusters moving through the queue together

18 docs in AUTH48
only 3 are not associated with a cluster

7 docs in AUTH48-DONE
only 2 are not associated with a cluster (both moved to AUTH48-DONE
10/3)
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison written report–


The board agreed to invite Heather Flanagan as RSE to attend future IAB teleconferences as the RFC Editor Liaison. Joel will follow up with Heather.


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair (Lars Eggert)


–Begin IRTF Chair written report–



```
- The (pending) publication of the ILNP document set on the IRTF
Stream is running into some issues. Apparently (according to Jorge)
the Trust TLP prohibits IRTF Stream documents from using the pre-5378
boilerplate variant, as well as the no-derivative-works variant. This
seems to be in conflict with what RFC5743 is saying.

- ANRP 2013 cycle has started. Nominations deadline is Nov 30.

- RG chairs are having issues using the IETF datatracker extensions for
chairs. Ticket has been filed in May. No activity since.

- I'm asking the chairs for which RG wants to meet with the IAB in
Atlanta. ICNRG was proposed by Alissa, but it's not clear if the
chairs are there Thu AM. DTNRG could be a fallback?
```

–End IRTF Chair written report–


#### 2.5. IEEE-SA Liaison Manager (Dan Romascanu)


–Begin IEEE-SA Liaison Manager written report–



```
1. As decided in the face-to-face meeting in July two mail lists will
be created to support the interaction of the leadership teams of the
two SDOs. One was already created (for the team working on
rfc4441bis), the second one including the two leadership teams should
be launched any day (waiting for confirmation from the IESG
secretariat)

2. The first coordination telechat between the two leadership teams
took place on 9/5. The minutes are available at
http://www.ietf.org/iesg/ieee/ together with the document that will be
maintained at least until March 2013 documenting the fields of shared
interest between the two organizations, status of each item, owners,
action items. The next coordination call will be held on 10/29.

3. The team working on RFC4441bis started to work on weekly calls mode
(each Wednesday). An rfc444bis-00 draft will be issued before the
cutoff date (10/14).

4. The IEEE 802.1 WG hold an interim meeting the week of 9/10. Donald
Eastlake and Tissa Senevirathne presented the status of the shared
TRILL-IEEE 802.1 proposal
http://www.ieee802.org/1/files/public/docs2012/liaison-tissa-oam-ieee-
trill-0912-v02.pptx which got a mixed reception from some of the
participants. The issue is being discussed with the leadership and
experts in the two organizations.

5. On 8/28 a Liaison Statement addressed to the IETF Chair (Security
ADs and IPsecme chairs copied) was received from the IEEE 802.11
Working group https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1181/ requesting
that the IETF make a request to IANA to update the IKEv1 registry
named "Group Description" and assign code points for the "Brainpool
curves". Action on this matter is required before 12/15.

6. On 9/24 the IPPM WG received a Liaison Statement
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1195/ from the IEEE 802.16 WG
informing them on the new IEEE Project P802.16.3 on Mobile Broadband
Network Performance Measurements

7. On 9/25 the BFD WG sent a liaison statement to the IEEE 802.1 WG
https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1192/ in response to liaison
statement to the IETF regarding Proposed IETF BFD WG work on Ethernet
LAG, informing the IEEE on decisions made following the liaison letter
and the status of the IETF work and documents.
```

–End IEEE-SA Liaison Manager written report–


Bernard noted that the goal was to have a draft of the RFC 4441bis revision posted as an internet-draft before the 00 deadline on 15 October 2012.


#### 2.6. ICANN RSSAC Liaison Manager


No written report was received from the ICANN RSSAC Liaison Manager.


After discussion, the board agreed to change the IAB Shepherd for the RSSAC Liaison from Danny McPherson to Marc Blanchet. Danny will work with Marc to get him up to speed.


### 3. IETF 85 Schedule


Mary asked Program Leads to put their Program meetings at IETF 85 into the wiki.


The joint meeting with the IESG on Sunday will focus on expected meeting hot spots and the discussions around RFC 2870.


The board agreed to discuss “Challenges in Secure Origin Authentication” at the Sunday afternoon IAB meeting, as suggested by Dan York of ISOC. Hannes will lead the discussion on this topic.


The IAB Business Meeting on Tuesday will include a review of the current status of IAB documents, as well as dealing with the IAOC appointment. The IAB Business Meeting on Thurday will include a review of the IRTF DTNRG.


Mary asked board members to sign up for BOF coverage. Board members agreed to cover BOFs as follows:


* Web PKI operations BOF (WPKOPS): Bernard
* Interface to the Routing System BOF (IRS): Joel
* Internet Video Codec BOF (VIDEOCODEC): Bernard, Spencer
* Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring BOF (SACM): Hannes
* Certificate Transparency BOF (CERTRANS): Hannes (tentative)
* Extensions to the Bonjour protocol suite BOF (MDNSEXT): Marc, Dave,Jari
* Fixed Mobile Convergence BOF (FMC): Marc, Jari
* HTTP Authentication Mechanisms BOF (HTTPAUTH): Hannes, Danny, Dave (tentative)
* RFC Format BOF (RFCFORM): Dave


### 4. IETF 85 Technical Plenary Update


Alissa reported that Henning Schulzrinne, Sam Crawford and Alex Salter have have been confirmed as speakers for the Technical Plenary. They are meeting this week to discuss what each presentation will cover. Alissa hopes to have an outline available for review early next week.


### 5. IAB Appointment to IAOC


The IAB is responsible for selecting one IETF Administrative Oversight Committee (IAOC) member for a two-year term starting in March 2013. The board agreed to the following timeline:


* Friday, 12 October 2012: Send email to IETF-Announce with the specific dates for each step of the process and the call for nominations.
* Friday, 2 November 2012: Publish list of nominated persons and ask for community feedback.
* IETF 85 (4-9 November 2012): Interviews with candidates.
* Friday, 30 November 2012: Announce chosen candidate.
* IETF 86 (10-15 March 2013): New IAOC member seated.


### 6. IAB-Stream Errata


The board confirmed the following responses to errata reported on IAB- stream documents:


* RFC 6055 (http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata\_search.php?eid=3296): Hold for Document Update
* RFC 5741 (http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata\_search.php?eid=3331): Hold for Document Update
* RFC 2825 (http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata\_search.php?eid=3124): Hold for Document Update


Bernard will enter these responses into the RFC Editor Errata tool.


### 7. Status of this Memo Text


Bernard sent a message back to the RSE regarding the “Status of this Memo” boilerplate text for IAB-stream documents on 9 October 2012 and is awaiting a reply.


### 8. RFC 2870bis


Danny reported that an informal survey of all root name server operators indicates that all ‘letters’ will have the capability to provide service over IPv6 by the end of 2013. The broader issue will be discussed on a conference call organized by Ron Bonica later in the week. The IAB plans to discuss this further with the IESG at IETF 85.


### 9. Congestion Control Workshop Report


Hannes reported that he plans to submit the initial draft version of the Congestion Control Workshop Report by the 00 I-D deadline on 15 October 2012.


### 10. Retreat Dates


The board discussed potential retreat dates and locations for 2013 with the goal of being able to schedule the IAB, IESG and IAOC retreats back-to-back to minimize travel for those who have to attend more than one of the retreats. It was noted that 6 of the last 7 IAB retreats have been on the U.S. East Coast, and that it may be time to move to other venues.


It was suggested that holding the retreats in Dublin during the week prior to RIPE 66 (scheduled for 13-17 May 2013) would be beneficial for those who are already planning to attend that meeting. Joel will pass this suggestion along to the IESG.


### 11. Internet Governance Consultation & ISOC@IGF2012 Guide


Joel reported that ISOC sent out a questionnaire on Internet Governance. The board reviewed the questionnaire (sent earlier via email) and agreed that there was nothing needing a response from the  IAB.


Alissa noted that the next Internet Governance Forum (IGF) meeting conflicts with IETF 85. David agreed to follow up with the IAOC about preventing future clashes between IETF and IGF.


### 12. OpenStand


Bernard reported that a face-to-face OpenStand meeting is being planned and suggested that this may be a topic for the joint meeting with the IESG on Friday afternoon at IETF 85.


