
Minutes of the 2012-10-24 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler


##### APOLOGIES


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.3. Action item review


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 October 2012 tech chat and business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 10 October 2012 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IETF 85 Schedule


Bernard reviewed the IAB scheduled for IETF 85, and called for agenda items for the Tuesday and Thursday breakfast meetings. Because there are a number of topics of interest to both the IAB and IESG, the board agreed to join the IESG for lunch on Sunday 30 minutes earlier than normally scheduled, at 1130.


### 3. IETF 85 Technical Plenary Update


Alissa reported via email that the technical plenary will have two presentations: one joint presentation from Sam Crawford and Alex Salter of SamKnows, followed by one from Henning Schulzrinne. Alissa expects to have slides available for the IAB to review by the end of the week.


Alissa will send out an updated description of the technical plenary for use in the meeting program.


### 4. IAB Appointment to IAOC


The board discussed whether enough nominations had been received. Bernard will issue a reminder on the Call for Nominations, which ends on 2 November 2012.


### 5. WHATWG


The board discussed an ongoing email thread on the IETF Discussion list relating to a new URL standard proposed in the WHATWG [[http://www.whatwg.org/](https://www.whatwg.org/ "WHAT WG")] that would obsolete RFC 3986. The board plans to discuss this further with the IESG at IETF 85. Russ will invite Mark Nottingham to join the discussion and provide context.


### 6. RFC 4441rev


Spencer reported that the team working on RFC 4441rev has had several conference calls to come up with an outline for the document, and that a very rough -00 draft has been posted as draft-dawkins-iab-rfc4441rev. The document still needs more details, especially on the IEEE side.


The team will meet in Atlanta to come up with the next revision of this draft, after which time it may be suitable to adopt as an IAB work item.


### 7. IANA Evolution Program


#### 7.1. ARIN and NSF


The IAB discussed the letter written by National Science Foundation (NSF) General Counsel Lawrence Rudolph to a legacy address holder ([http://www.internetgovernance.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/NSF\_GC\_Letter\_RE\_ARIN.pdf](http://www.internetgovernance.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/NSF_GC_Letter_RE_ARIN.pdf "NSF GC Letter re ARIN")) and the response sent to Mr. Rudolph by ARIN CEO John Curran on October 18, 2012. In particular, John Curran’s letter noted:


RFC 1174 further required the IANA and the Internet regional registries to meet and produce this documentation of the operational procedures and requirements to be used in operation of the Internet Registry System…


For example, RFC 2050, published in November 1996 and authored by the IANA and the staff of the existing regional Internet registries at that time (InterNIC, RIP NCC and APNIC) specifies a very clear set of policies for management of IP addresses in the global Internet Registry system… One of the policies in RFC 2050 (in Section 3.1) specifically provides for the invalidation and reclamation of addresses if the recipient’s need no longer exists.


#### 7.2. IANA Team


At the I\* Leaders’ Meeting held in September, a team got together to discuss the long-term future of the IANA Protocol Parameters Function. Further discussion of this topic will occur within the IAB IANA Evolution Program.


#### 7.3. IANA Policy Draft Update


Jari reported that the proposed draft on the IANA policy separation was not submitted before the deadline for IETF 85. Further discussion within the IANA Evolution Program is necessary to understand whether to move forward or not, and if so, what the document should say. The IANA Evolution Program will meet at IETF 85 to discuss this further.


### 8. Status of This Memo Text


Heather reported that upon further investigation, the RFC Editor agrees that no changes are required to the “Status of This Memo” boilerplate text for IAB-stream documents.


### 9. RSSAC: rfc2870bis and restructuring


Marc reported that he has begun taking over from Danny as liaison manager for the RSSAC liaison relationship. Marc and Danny met with Peter Koch to discuss RFC 2870bis. The IAB will discuss this further with the IESG at IETF 85.


### 10. Future Tech Chats


Marc proposed a future tech chat on IDN Variants, to be led by Andrew Sullivan. The board was amendable to this proposal; Marc will work with Andrew to schedule the tech chat. The next available Tech Chat date is Wednesday, December 5.


### 11. Document Status


#### 11.1. draft-iab-identifier-comparison


The most recent version of the document addresses most of the open comments. Bernard will issue an IAB Last Call on draft-iab-identifier-comparison.


#### 11.2. draft-iab-extension-recs


The document was published as RFC 6709 on 15 September 2012.


#### 11.3. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


A new version was submitted on 22 October 2012. Bernard will issue an IAB Last Call on draft-iab-privacy-considerations.


#### 11.4. draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon reported that the IETF Call for Comments on draft-iab-dns-applications ended on 16 August 2012, and that the document was updated on 22 October 2012 to address the comments received. Jon will review the issues in the tracker.


#### 11.5. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Danny reported that he has received feedback from Dave Thaler on the current revision of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications, and once the document is updated to address those, it should be ready for IAB Last Call.


#### 11.6. draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples


Comments on draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples need to be addressed. The document is on the agenda for discussion at the Tuesday breakfast meeting at IETF 85.


#### 11.7. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


This is a new document, based on draft-barnes-blocking-considerations. The board agreed to use the architecture-discuss mailing list to discuss this document.


#### 11.8. draft-iab-modern-paradigm-01


The document is currently in IETF Call for Comment, ending 1 November 2012.


#### 11.9. draft-tschofenig-smart-object-architecture


Bernard will issue an IAB Call for Adoption on draft-tschofenig-smart-object-architecture.


#### 11.10. draft-blanchet-iab-internetoverport443


Bernard will issue an IAB Call for Adoption on draft-blanchet-iab-internetoverport443


### 12. IAB Chair Election


The board agreed to spend time discussing the IAB Chair election procedures at the Thursday breakfast meeting at IETF 85. Marc will send a proposal out for the board to review before that meeting.


