
Minutes of the 2012-08-02 IAB Business Meeting 
Vancouver, BC, Canada
---------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia,


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Ross Callon
* Danny McPherson


##### GUESTS


* Lisandro Granville, NMRG Chair (item 3 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The board agreed not to hold a teleconference on 8 August 2012. Hannes is checking with Ed Felten for possible dates for a tech chat. Hannes to also check about a tech chat on passwords based on recent SAAG mailing list discussion.


### 2. Technical Topic: Congestion Control Workshop Post-Mortem, and next steps on QoS


Alissa led a review of the Congestion Control Workshop held on 18 July 2012, based on the summary slides presented during the meeting (see [http://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2012/07/7-cc-workshop-summary-revised.pptx](https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2012/07/7-cc-workshop-summary-revised.pptx)).


Bernard pointed out that while a congestion control algorithm might be more effective with assistance from the network, it would be desirable to use a single algorithm that can function well with or without competition from other transports, including TCP, LEDBAT or SCTP.


Spencer agreed to take the action item to draft a high-level message on supported for segregated queueing and a plan for an update to RFC 3714.


### 3. IRTF Review: Network Management Research Group (NMRG)


Lisandro Granville, chair of the Network Management Research Group (NCRG) [<http://irtf.org/nmrg>] gave a brief overview of the research group’s activities. The group has met 28 times since forming in 1998, and has published 5 RFCs.


Current work items include topics on NetFlow and IPFIX, autonomics and self management, the Internet of Things, software-defined networking, and Cloud datacenter networks.


