
Minutes of the 2012-03-29 IAB Business Meeting 
Paris, France
-------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman (outgoing IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky (outgoing IAB)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Michael Behringer, IRTF Network Complexity Research Group (item 5 only)


#### APOLOGIES


* Danny McPherson


### 2. IAB role in New Work


Spencer presented the current revision of the statement “IAB Member Roles in Evaluating New Work Proposals.” The board agreed that the proposal was ready to discuss with the IESG. At the Friday IAB/IESG lunch the proposal was approved for publication on the IAB website as well as the IESG wiki.


### 3. ISOC Board of Trustees Selection, Executive Session


Andrei formally recused himself from the discussion. In an executive session, the board briefly discussed the ISOC Board of Trustees interviews conducted thus far, and made plans for interviewing the remaining candidates. The board will discuss this further in an executive session at the next IAB business meeting on 11 April 2012.


### 4. Programs and Initiatives


#### 4.1. ITU-T Coordination Program


The board approved Joel and Ross as joint IAB Leads of the ITU-T Coordination Program, with Joel focusing on strategic issues (the ITU-T-Program list) and Ross focusing on tactical issues (the ITU-T-Liaisons list).


#### 4.2. Internationalization Program


Dave Thaler requested adding Lars-Johan Liman to the Internationalization Program to work on the updates to RFC 1123, and the board approved.


#### 4.3. Web Security


Hannes reported that he received email from Jeff Hodges regarding the proposed organizational reform of the Certification Authority/Browser Forum [[http://www.cabforum.org/](https://www.cabforum.org/ "CA Browser Forum")]. The board agreed to send a message to the CA/Browser Forum; Hannes will draft proposed text.


### 5. IRTF


#### 5.1 Network Complexity Research Group (NCRG) review


Michael Behringer, chair of the Network Complexity Research Group (NCRG) [[http://irtf.org/ncrg](http://irtf.org/ncrg "NCRG")] gave a brief overview of the research group’s activities. The group has met several times since April 2010, but this was their first official meeting as an IRTF Research Group.


Current work items include how to define network complexity, how to measure network complexity and how changes to protocol designs affect network complexity. Beyond that, the RG plans to collate use cases on network complexity to illustrate best practices.


#### 5.2. IRTF Update


Lars reported that there are two current proposals for new research groups, one on data center networking research, and one on internet economics and policy.


The IP Mobility Optimizations (MOBOPTS) and Peer-to-Peer (P2PRG) Research Groups are considering shutting down.


### 6. Other Business


Robert Sparks is replacing Sean Turner as liaison from the IESG.


Olaf noted that this was his last official IAB meeting, and expressed his appreciation for the board and the time he has spent with him. Andrei agreed with Olaf’s sentiments.


