
Minutes of the 2012-05-23 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Olaf Kolkman (present through item 3 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


The IETF 84 Plenary was discussed under item 10, “Other Business”.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed. Mary reported that the security certificate on the internal IAB server has been updated.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2 May 2012 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 2012 IAB Retreat and the 16 May 2012 business meeting remain under discussion.


### 2. IANA past performance questionnaire


The board reviewed the final draft of the IAB response to the past performance questionnaire that will be submitted with ICANN’s response to the RFP for the IANA functions contract. The board approved the response to the questionnaire pending Danny’s review. Once Danny confirms his agreement with the response, Bernard will send the response to ICANN, and the IANA Evolution Program will post the response on their web page [[http://www.iab.org/activities/programs/iana-evolution-program/](https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/iana-evolution-program/)].


### 3. OECD ITAC


The board discussed IAB participation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Internet Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC) [<http://www.internetac.org/>]. The board agreed that the IAB Chair (iab-chair@iab.org) is the appropriate IAB contact for this going forward, and Bernard will delegate any issues relevant to the IAB as they come in.


### 4. Liaison Reports


#### 4.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
  Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
  23 May 2012

  Topics:
  I. World IPv6 Launch, 6th June 2012
  II. Joint report launched at WSIS Forum
  III. UN Commission on Science and Technology for Development (CSTD)
  IV. Internet Governance Forum
  V. ITU World Telecommunication Policy Forum
  VI. OECD Internet Advisory Committee (ITAC)
  VII. APEC Electronic Commerce Steering Group
  VIII. Calling Line Identity submission to CEPT ComITU
  IX. CA/Browser Forum Governance Model

  I. World IPv6 Launch, 6th June 2012

  World IPv6 Launch is set for June 6, 2012:  participating websites
  (which include the top 4 Alexa ranked websites) will turn on IPv6 for
  their services, for good; participating access networks (numbering
  nearly 50) will have reached the level of at least 1% of their traffic
  to the major websites over IPv6; participating CPE vendors have
  committed to having IPv6 functionality, on by default, through their
  product line. Stay tuned: http://www.worldipv6launch.org/ .

  II. Joint report launched at WSIS Forum

  The WSIS Forum 2012 was held in Geneva on 14-18 May 2012. The Internet
  Society helped organise and participated in a number of workshops,
  roundtables and other sessions, including those discussing data
  privacy, identity management, freedom of expression, and Internet
  governance:
  [http://internetsociety.org/wsis-2012-internet-society-workshops-and-](http://internetsociety.org/wsis-2012-internet-society-workshops-and-speakers-0)
  [speakers-0](http://internetsociety.org/wsis-2012-internet-society-workshops-and-speakers-0) .

  During the Forum, ISOC, UNESCO and the OECD launched a joint report on
  “The Relationship between Local Content, Internet Development and
  Access Prices”, which demonstrates a strong correlation between the
  development of network infrastructure and the growth of local content,
  and a connection between developed local Internet markets and lower
  reported prices for international bandwidth:
  [http://www.internetsociety.org/news/clear-correlation-between-local-](http://www.internetsociety.org/news/clear-correlation-between-local-content-internet-development-and-access-prices)
  [content-internet-development-and-access-prices](http://www.internetsociety.org/news/clear-correlation-between-local-content-internet-development-and-access-prices) .

  III. UN Commission on Science and Technology for Development (CSTD)

  The CSTD is holding its regular session in Geneva on 22-25 May, mainly
  focusing on the IGF and on ‘enhanced cooperation’. As requested by the
  UN General Assembly, the session was preceded by a one day open
  consultation on ‘enhanced cooperation’ on 18 May. Markus Kummer was
  invited to be on an introductory panel. In his statement he reaffirmed
  the ISOC position, namely that ‘enhanced cooperation’ is a process
  that is taking place within and between existing organisations, with
  no need for a central mechanism or a new body to oversee the process.
  However, there was a strong push for creating a new working group to
  deal with this issue. Countries like Saudi Arabia, India and South
  Africa repeated their call for the UN to deal with public policy
  issues pertaining to the Internet. Brazil was more nuanced and
  suggested setting up a multistakeholder group based on the model of
  the Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG). The webcasts (with
  recorded audio and video) of the meeting are available:
  <http://www.itu.int/ibs/WSIS/201205forum/> .

  IV. Internet Governance Forum

  Open Consultations and a MAG meeting in Geneva on 15 - 17 May focused
  on the selection of workshops for the Baku meeting. Constance
  Bommelaer participated as a new MAG member. The workshop proposals
  submitted by ISOC on critical issues such as Human Rights and the
  Internet, IPR and DNS filtering were well ranked. ISOC also submitted
  a proposal to organize an Open Forum on “Internet Operations”.
  Constance is coordinating the main session “Taking stock and the way
  forward”.

  V. ITU World Telecommunication Policy Forum

  ISOC submitted comments on the ITU Secretary General's first draft of
  the report on the fifth ITU World Telecommunication Policy Forum
  (WTPF) that will be held in Geneva from 13 to 16 May 2013. Constance
  Bommelaer will be invited to join the WTPF’s Informal Expert Group
  (IEG) which will be appointed to prepare the Forum. With regard to the
  theme of the Forum we proposed that “Strategies for increasing
  affordable global connectivity: the critical role of IXPs” be chosen
  as the main theme and core topic for the Secretary General’s initial
  report and as the focus for discussions at the fifth WTPF in 2013.

  VI. OECD Internet Advisory Committee (ITAC)

  The ITAC delegation, led by Christine Runnegar, participated in the
  WPISP Privacy Volunteer Group, in Paris on 9 May regarding the review
  of the OECD Privacy Guidelines. Christine also participated in the
  joint consultation of the OECD Health Care Quality Indicators Expert
  Group and the WPISP on 11 May where she referred delegates to work
  being undertaken in the Internet technical community to facilitate
  interoperable data sharing across borders. Among the items of work
  discussed during the WPISP were the review of the OECD Privacy
  Guidelines, Security Guidelines and Guidelines for Cryptography
  Policy.

  VII. APEC Electronic Commerce Steering Group

  The APEC Second Senior Officials' Meeting  of the Electronic Commerce
  Steering Group meetings is meeting in Kazan, Russia on 22-27 May to
  discuss the implementation of the APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules
  System, adopted by APEC leaders in late 2011.  This work is carried
  out by the Data Privacy Sub-Group (DPS) which is currently developing
  documents and procedures. Christine Runnegar is participating.

  VIII. Calling Line Identity submission to CEPT ComITU

  ISOC was recently invited to attend the meetings of the European
  Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT)
  Committee for ITU Policy (ComITU). This committee organises the
  coordination of CEPT actions and positions in relation to various ITU
  activities, including the development of Common European Proposals
  (CEPs) in the lead-up to WCIT-12 and the revision of the International
  Telecommunication Regulations (ITRs).

  After initiation by RIPE NCC, and in collaboration with ICANN and
  ISOC, a document was submitted for the consideration of CEPT Member
  States at this week's Com-ITU meeting. The submission discusses the
  potential consequences for the Internet industry of proposals to
  include Calling Line Identification (CLI) regulation in the ITRs. The
  full text of the submission is available at:
  [https://www.ripe.net/internet-coordination/internet-governance/multi-](https://www.ripe.net/internet-coordination/internet-governance/multi-stakeholder-engagement/itu/cept-cli-submission)
  [stakeholder-engagement/itu/cept-cli-submission](https://www.ripe.net/internet-coordination/internet-governance/multi-stakeholder-engagement/itu/cept-cli-submission) .

  The document was well received and the group agreed on a final text
  very much aligned with our joint submission.

  IX. CA/Browser Forum Governance Model

  ISOC submitted comments to the CA/Browser forum on their governance
  model after consultations during the IETF 83 meeting in Paris:
  [http://www.cabforum.org/cabf-governance-proposals/index.html](https://www.cabforum.org/cabf-governance-proposals/index.html) .
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 4.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
  IESG liaison report (covering Apr 25 to May 23):

  News you can use
     - draft-betts-itu-oam-ach-code-point-04 was approved

  SDO coordination
     - The Routing Area sent "Approval of MPLS-TP document related to
       G.8113.1 code point and two other MPLS-TP documents" to the ITU-T
       SG 15 noting that the code point cannot be allocated before G.
       8113.1 is approved and requesting a return liaison statement once
       that happens. This liaison statement also called attention to the
       IESG note that will be added to RFC version of
       draft-betts-itu-oam-ach-code-point. See
       [https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1156/]
     - The IESG responded to IEEE 802.1's request for information about
       ongoing work related to MAC networks. See
       [https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1155/]
     - The joint leadership meeting with IEEE was scheduled on Jul 25

  Working Groups
     Creation:
         - WEIRDS, SUNSET4, and NVO3 have been created.
         - A proposed charter for SCIM is in internal review.
     Rechartering:
         - The OAUTH and DIME charters were updated.
         - Updates to BEHAVE, MPTCP, and NFSv4 are in external review.
         - An update to PAWS is in internal review.
     Conclusion:
         - none
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 4.3. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report–



```
  1. RSE Report

  Update on Active Projects
  Active projects underway include:
  * RFC Format
   Active discussion continues on rfc-interest list. Right now,
   discussion is focused on HTML proposal and the question of pagination;
  * RFC Style Guide
   Work continues internally on the style guide with a new draft
   out to the RFC Production Center staff and RSAG; this will not go out
   for community feedback until the RFC Format discussion has died down

  Other items of note:
  * Discussion has begun on the 2013 budget, with an initial proposal
    expected to go to the RSOC in June

  2. RFC Production Center
  Face to Face meeting with the RSE included discussions on implementing
  the RPC and Publisher split, web site changes, budget, and Style Guide.
  In particular, for the RPC/Publisher split, the initial plan and associated
  diagram have been drawn up, and the SOW for the Publisher is undergoing
  revision accordingly.  The SOW of the RPC will also be revised.

  Average time in state for documents in the RFC Editor queue is good (around
  2 weeks in the EDIT and RFC-EDIT states), and the surge of docs from the March
  AD transition (40 docs) have all been processed.  As a reminder, queue
  information may be found online at: http://www.rfc-editor.org/current_queue.php

  3. Announcements
  RFC Format BoF registered for IETF 84
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison written report–


#### 4.4. IRTF Chair


–Begin IRTF Chair written report–



```
  IRTF Report May 2012

  - The Information-Centric Networking Research Group was chartered on
    Apr 17. Chairs are Dirk Kutscher, Börje Ohlman and Dave Oran.

  - We've gotten 20 submissions for the 2012 ANRPs, and reviews are
    underway. Notification deadline is Jun 1.

  - RG chairs are having issues using the IETF datatracker extensions
    for chairs. Ticket has been filed.

  - There will be a kickoff meeting for a software-defined networking RG
    in Vancouver.
```

–End IRTF Chair written report–


### 5. Instructions to RFC Editor re handling of IAB Stream documents


Dave Thaler is working on updated text for the RFC Style Guide [<http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-style-guide/iab-format.txt>] with directions for how the RFC Editor should handle technical changes in AUTH48 for IAB Stream documents, as well as boilerplate text to be used for IAB consensus documents since “Internet Architecture Board” will no longer be listed as an author.


The board discussed whether it was necessary to include the “Internet Architecture Board Members at the time this document was approved for publication,” noting that IESG members are not listed in IETF Stream documents. The board concluded that this section may no longer be necessary, and while all IAB members are expected to review IAB Stream documents, only those IAB members who provide substantive comments should be included in the document’s Acknowledgements section. Dave will incorporate this decision into his writeup for the RFC Style Guide and bring it back to the board for review at the next IAB business meeting on 6 June 2012.


### 6. Confidentiality in IAB Programs


Spencer reported that version 3 of the text about the expectation of confidentiality in IAB Programs has been sent to the board for review, but he has not received any comments back to date. Spencer noted that he is also waiting on the outcome of the discussion about specific privacy concerns within the IANA Evolution Program; Hannes and Jari will discuss and get in touch with Spencer. Spencer asked the board to review and provide comments on the current text, and plan to discuss this further at the next IAB business meeting on 6 June 2012.


### 7. RFC 1087


The board agreed not to make any changes to the status of RFC 1087 at this time.


### 8. Workshop on Congestion Control for WebRTC


The board agreed to co-sponsor a workshop with the IRTF on “Congestion Control for Interactive Real-Time Communication” [[http://www.iab.org/cc-workshop/](https://www.iab.org/cc-workshop/)] on 28 July 2012 in Vancouver. Bernard will send out the Call for Papers for the workshop.


### 9. IPv6 tech chat, May 30th


The board will have a tech chat on the IPv6-only network project of the T-Mobile USA network, led by Cameron Byrne. Marc requested that board members let him know if they have any specific topics they wanted to address so that Cameron can adjust his presentation accordingly.


### 10. Other Business


Jon reported that Ted Hardie and Dave Ward have confirmed their availability to speak at the IETF 84 Technical Plenary, and that he is working to confirm a third speaker. The board noted that the time allotted for the Technical Plenary at IETF 84 will only be two hours, and so the panel session will be planned accordingly.


