
Minutes of the 2012-06-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson


##### GUEST


* Eliot Lear (through item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on the proposed agenda for the IETF – IEEE 802 leadership meeting was added under Other Business (12).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 June 2012 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 30 May 2012 tech chat and the 13 June 2012 business meeting remain under discussion. Mary will send the minutes of the 30 May 2012 tech chat to Cameron Byrne (the tech chat speaker) for review.


### 2. ITU-T Update


#### 2.1. Approval of draft-iab-rfc3356bis


The board approved draft-iab-rfc3356bis-05 for publication as an RFC. Eliot will notify the ITU-T of the IAB’s approval; the document will be forwarded to the RFC Editor after the ITU-T approves publication. This is expected at the TSAG meeting next week.


#### 2.2. Proposed Liaison Statement to ITU-T on References to Documents from
Other SDOs


The board approved sending the liaison statement “Observations on Contribution 74 to TSAG Concerning Modification of IETF Protocols and Technologies by the ITU-T” to the ITU-T.


### 3. Liaison Reports – 5 minutes


#### 3.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
  Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
  26 June 2012

  Topics:
  I. World IPv6 Launch, 6th June 2012
  II. World Conference of International Telecommunications (WCIT)
  III. World Telecommunication Policy Forum (WTPF)
  IV. APEC Senior Officials Meeting 2 (SOM2), Kazan, Russian Federation,
    22-27 May 2012
  V. EuroDIG, Stockholm, 14-15 June 2012

  I. World IPv6 Launch, 6th June 2012
  On June 6, 2012, over 2,500 websites and more than 65 access networks
  achieved a milestone in IPv6 deployment.  The websites, including the
  top 4 most visited ones in the world, have turned IPv6 on for good.
  The access networks are committed to IPv6 deployment as part of their
  standard product offering and have achieved 1% of their traffic using
  IPv6 to reach the major websites.  See more at
  http://www.worldipv6launch.org/measurements .

  II. World Conference of International Telecommunications (WCIT)
  U.S. lawmakers have been very engaged on the WCIT, with hearings on
  Capitol Hill and the announcement of the Head of the U.S. Delegation,
  Larry Kraemer.  ISOC's Sally Wentworth participated in the hearing and
  ISOC's call for greater transparency and the need to limit the scope
  of the treaty have been well-received.   In Europe, the European
  Telecommunications Network Operators' Association (ETNO) submitted a
  proposal to WCIT that has caused plenty of concern within the Internet
  community, particularly for the impact it would have on private
  commercial peering arrangements and on developing countries.   ISOC is
  formulating an analysis of the proposal.  We will also be circulating
  a paper on the differences between traditional telecom networks and IP
  networks in order to address the assumption by some that IP traffic
  may be subject to traditional telecom regulations.  The ITU Council
  Working Group will meet on 20-22 June in Geneva - ISOC will
  participate.

  III. World Telecommunication Policy Forum (WTPF)
  The Internet Society, represented by Constance Bommelaer, participated
  in the first meeting of the WTPF Informal Experts Group on 5 June, in
  Geneva. The ITU Secretariat briefly presented the preliminary second
  version of the draft SG report. This second version contains
  paragraphs suggesting a stronger operational role for the ITU relating
  to Internet naming and addressing, RPKI and also on DNSSEC. Deadline
  for sending comment on the SG’s report is 20 June.

  IV. APEC Senior Officials Meeting 2 (SOM2), Kazan, Russian Federation,
    22-27 May 2012
  The Internet Society, represented by Christine Runnegar, participated
  in the recent meetings of the APEC Electronic Commerce Steering Group
  (ECSG) and its Data Privacy Sub-Group (DPS) and Paperless Trading Sub-
  Group (PTS) during SOM2 as an invited guest. The ECSG endorsed the
  APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) System Joint Oversight Panel
  Protocols, the last element remaining to make the CBPR System
  operational. The ECSG is now ready to receive expressions of interest
  from APEC economies to participate in the CBPR System.The APEC CBPR
  System documents are available to download via the APEC website:
  http://www.apec.org/Groups/Committee-on-Trade-and-Investment/
  Electronic-Commerce-Steering-Group.aspx

  The Russian Federation also presented a Multi-Year Project: Concept
  Note - Chokepoints of ICT-Infrastructure and Policies on the Way
  Towards a Trusted Internet (Web 3.0) to the ECSG. A copy of this
  proposal is available for download via the APEC website:
  http://aimp.apec.org/Documents/2012/ECSG/ECSG2/12_ecsg2_004.pdf 

  V. EuroDIG, Stockholm, 14-15 June 2012
  Three Internet Society staff contributed to the European Dialogue on
  Internet Governance (EuroDIG): Markus Kummer (speaker - plenary
  "Principles, Policies and Practices - Gleanings from the 2011 work on
  Internet governance principles), Frederic Donck (moderator - workshop
  - "Do we need net neutrality regulation in Europe?") and Christine
  Runnegar (speaker - workshop - "Digital Inclusion: A boon or a
  bane?").
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 3.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
  IESG liaison report (covering May 24 to Jun 27):

  SDO coordination
   - The IESG responded to a liaison from ITU-T SG 3 informing the IETF
     about the planned use of NSIS in an ITU-T recommendation, noting
     that the IETF has not endorsed NSIS, but has published it as
     Experimental RFCs. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1161/
   - The IETF highlighted the rechartering of PAWS in a liaison to IEEE
     802.1. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1160/
   - Summary of communication to working groups:
      * ITU-T SG 15 to MPLS: https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1162/
      * ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11 to MMUSIC:
        https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1158/
      * 3GPP to MMUSIC: https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1158/

  Working Groups
     Creation:
       - The SCIM and IMAPMOVE WGs have been created.
       - A proposed charter for STRAW is in external review.
     Rechartering:
       - The PAWS, TCPM, BEHAVE, MPTCP, and NFSv4 WG charters were
         updated.
     Conclusion:
       - The MARF WG concluded.
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 3.3. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor written report–



```
  1. RSE Report

  Update on Active Projects
  * RFC Format
    Active discussion continues on rfc-interest list, with related
    conversations happening with the RSAG group.  Current focus of
    discussion is whether a canonical source format that allows a
    variety of display formats is the right path, or if it is better
    to have a single, canonical display format.  The formats that
    have been most actively discussed are XML and HTML.
  * RFC Style Guide
    Work continues internally on the style guide with a new draft
    out to the RFC Production Center staff and RSAG.  A draft of the
    dynamic component of the Style Guide is viewable on the RSE wiki
    (http://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/doku.php?id=styleweb);
    discussion is still internal to the RFC Production Center staff and
    RSAG.

  Other items of note:
  * Initial 2013 budget justification has gone to the RSOC for review
  * The IAOC has approved the extension of funds for editorial support
    through 2012.

  2. RFC Production Center
  SLA and Stats
  * RFC Editor processing times as of June 21 are good (average of 4.2
    weeks for RFC Editor controlled states); the trend for our response
    times to be within our SLA are improving (see attached graph of
    number of RFCs published per month, with colors indicating how many
    documents that month were published 0-4 weeks, 4-6 weeks, 6-8 weeks,
    and over 8 weeks)
  * Due to a large number of document clusters being released this
    month, we expect to see a rise in RFC Ed response times over the
    next few weeks.  Times are expected to drop back down to at or below
    SLA response times by the end of July.

  Other items of note:
  * Alice and Henrik will be presenting Introduction to IETF Tools
    (http://www.ietf.org/meeting/84/tutorials/intro-to-ietf-tools.html)
    for IETF 84
  * Increase in subpoenas recently (3 in last 3 months)
```

–End RFC Editor written report–


#### 3.4. IRTF Chair


–Begin IRTF Chair written report–



```
  - Three ANRP winners were selected for the remaining 2012 meetings.
    One will present in Vancouver and two in Atlanta. The 2013 selection
    cycle will commence in the fall/winter.

  - RG chairs are having issues using the IETF datatracker extensions
    for chairs. Ticket has been filed in May. No activity since.

  - There will be a kickoff meeting for a software-defined networking RG
    in Vancouver.

  - The MOBOPTS RG has closed.

  - I'm asking the chairs for which RG wants to meet with the IAB in
    Vancouver. (Suggestions?)
```

–End IRTF Chair written report–


The board discussed which research group to review at IETF 84. Lars agreed to check with the NMRG chairs to see if they would be available to meet with the IAB in Vancouver. If the NMRG chairs are unavailable, ICNRG was suggested as an alternative.


### 4. Update on Congestion Control Workshop


Mary reported that 31 papers have been submitted for the Workshop on Congestion Control for Interactive Real-Time Communication. The committee is currently reviewing the submissions, and the selected authors will be notified by 30 June 2012.


### 5. Potential response to ETNO end-to-end QoS proposal


The board discussed whether the IAB should provide a response to the ETNO end-to-end QoS proposal [<http://files.wcitleaks.org/public/ETNO%20C109.pdf>] and decided not to respond to the specific proposals. The board will discuss whether there is any guidance the IAB can provide on best-effort traffic at IETF 84, pending the results of the discussion in the Congestion Control Workshop.


### 6. Approval of draft-iab-extension-recs


Bernard reported that a new revision of draft-iab-extension-recs has been posted to address open issues. Dave agreed to look at the revision and follow up with Bernard.


### 7. Instructions to RFC Editor re handling of IAB Stream documents


The board approved the updated text for the current RFC style guide page [<http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-style-guide/iab-format.txt>] and the new boilerplate for IAB consensus documents. Bernard will forward both of these to the RFC Series Editor.


### 8. Response to liaison letter from ONF


Joel agreed to draft a response to the liaison letter from ONF.


### 9. Programs


#### 9.1. IAB Tools and Processes Program


The board approved the Program description and membership list for the IAB Tools and Processes Program pending the acceptance of an ISOC IT representative to be suggested by Mat.


#### 9.2. IANA Evolution Program


The board approved the updated Program description and membership list for the IANA Evolution Program. Cindy will update the Program page on the IAB website accordingly.


### 10. IETF 84 Plenary


Jon reported that he is still working to confirm an academic speaker for the panel session at the IETF 84 Technical Plenary.


### 11. IETF 84 Agenda


The board discussed the agenda for IAB time at IETF 84. Bernard asked board members to suggest topics for discussion at the Sunday and Tuesday sessions. The proposed topic for discussion on Sunday is Mobile Code.


Bernard asked that any Programs that need meeting time let him and Mary know as soon as possible so that arrangements for meeting rooms can be made with the Secretariat.


### 12. Other Business


#### 12.1. Agenda for IETF – IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting


The board discussed the draft agenda and list of participants for the IETF – IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting. The board also discussed expectations in regards to minuting the session. The board agreed that having minutes of the meeting would be good; Spencer agreed to ask Dan to raise the issue with Pat Thaler at IEEE to make sure that both sides are in agreement.


#### 12.2. Update on status of the IETF-IEEE relation


–Begin written report submitted by Dan Romascanu–



```
  - On a request by Ralph Droms we exchanged messages with the chair of
    IEEE 802.15 concerning the new IEEE 802.15 'Layer 2 Routing, a.k.a.
    Mesh Under Routing' Interest Group and potential relationship to
    work in the IETF 6lowpan and roll WGs. 

    Adrian and Ralph respectively proposed the two items above to be
    included on the agenda of the 7/25 leadership meeting. 

  -  Preparation for the leadership meeting - I hold one coordination
    call with Pat Thaler on 6/14, a second one is scheduled 6/28 (this
    Thursday).  The main goal is to work on agenda details and submit a
    more detailed agenda for discussion. Current agenda and list of
    participants is available at
    http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/iesg/trac/wiki/IEEE802andIETFleaders.
    A more detailed agenda may be distributed for comments by the end of
    the week.
```

–End written report submitted by Dan Romascanu–


