
Minutes of the 2012-01-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The board agreed to cancel the techchat on 1 February 2012 due to conflicts with a program retreat as well as an interim WG meeting that each involve some IAB members. Sean will check with Russ on the date for the IETF 83 BOF Coordination call.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 21 December 2011 and 11 January 2012 business meetings were approved.


### 2. ITU-T Program


The board approved the response to ITU-T TSAG Liaison TSAG-LS13-E “Update of IETF and ITU-T collaboration guidelines.” Eliot will send the liaison on behalf of the IAB.


Eliot will work with Spencer and the Liaison Oversight Program regarding inter-SDO coordination.


### 3. Liaison Reports


#### 3.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison written report–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
January 24, 2012

Topics:
I. Deploy360 programme has launched
II. World IPv6 Launch

I. Deploy360 programme has launched
As previewed in the December report, the Internet Society Deploy360
Programme has now been launched --
http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/ .

II. World IPv6 Launch
The Internet Society will be hosting the World IPv6 Launch activity in
June 2012.  Website and network operators, as well as equipment
manufacturers, are coming together in a commitment to provide full-
time, commercial IPv6 services, at a scale intended to demonstrate
that IPv6 deployment is a reality in 2012.   Full details at
http://www.worldipv6launch.org/
```

–End ISOC Liaison written report–


#### 3.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison written report–



```
=================
SDO Coordination

- ONF added to the new-work mailing list.

- A liaison was provided from the MIF WG to OMA in response their
liaison on OMA (Open Mobile Alliance) Open Connection Manager API on
6 January 2012 (http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1133/).

- The MPLS WG generated a liaisons in response to "LS317 - Last Call
review of draft-ietf-mpls-tp-li-lb-03"
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1130/).

- The MPLS WG also generated a liaison in response to "LS322 - MPLS-TP
equipment and management"
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1129/).

- A liaison was provided in response to ITU SG 3 liaison on NGN
Accounting and Charging Aspect
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1134/).

- A liaison was provided from the APPSAWG to OMA in response to their
liaison about the OMA CD MobSocNet and its scope
(http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1136/).

=================
Working Groups

Recharters
- rtgwg
- ipsecme
- dmm (formerly mext)
- dime

New
- spfbis (pending)

Chairs
- TCPM: David Borman has stepped down as a chair of the TCPM WG.
- TCPM: Pasi Sarolahti and Yoshifumi Nishida will replace David.
- OPSAWG: Melinda Shore added as 3rd chair.

IPR policy Enforcement

Triggered by a case last year and a new one this month, the IESG is
looking at the issue of what sanctions are available to WG chairs and
the IESG to use against individuals who significantly breach the
IETF's IPR policy. Initially, this will take the form of advice to the
CCAMP working group chairs to address an immediate case, and an
Internet-Draft to allow the community to consider and agree on the use
of sanctions.
```

–End IESG Liaison written report–


#### 3.3. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison written report–



```
1. RSE
The RSE has met with Olaf Kolkman in Amsterdam to discuss immediate
projects and concerns that have been holding for a permanent RSE.  A
meeting was held with the IAD, Ray Pelletier, to review contracts and
SLA.  The RFC Production Center and Publisher met with the RSE onsite in
Fremont to go over processes and start on work to update the Style Guide.

The initial list of projects waiting for RSE action has been created and
is being reviewed with the RSOC as well as the RFC Production Center.
Out of that list, initial priority is being given to updating the Style
Guide and to continuing to make the RFC Production Center and the RFC
Publisher discrete components that can transition independently as
contract changes require.  Other items such as updating the RFC Editor
website content (News, FAQ, Site Map, component descriptions) are
expected to be part of ongoing background effort.  In general, the goal
will be to balance community-visible changes and internal process
improvements.

2. RFC Production Center
The Production Center saw record submissions (364) in 2011.  With the
assistance of the new part-time editors, the queue remains under
control.  We are anticipating a surge of submissions around the March
IETF meeting as departing Area Directors clean out their queue in
preparation for the new ADs.  This is expected and understood to be part
of the ebb and flow of the IETF.

3. Announcements
A retreat with the RSOC is being planned for Saturday, March 24, 2012,
in Paris.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison written report–


#### 3.4. IRTF Chair


–Begin IRTF Chair written report–



```
Paris planning is beginning, it looks like quite a number of RGs are
planning to meet.

With regards to the ANRP, we have decided to move to a yearly
nomination/selection cycle for 2013. In order to get the timeline
aligned, we're skipping the ANRP for Paris (no time to select awards
for all the 2012 meetings over the holiday period) and instead select
the awards for the two remaining 2012 meetings before the summer
meeting. I need to communicate this to the community.
```

–End IRTF Chair written report–


### 4. IETF 83 Plenary


The board agreed on application-layer Internet security as the topic for the IETF 83 plenary panel session, but agreed that the current scope of the proposal needs refining. Hannes will send an updated proposal to the board, along with a list of potential speakers, by 3 February 2012.


### 5. Smart Object Security Workshop


The board decided not to sponsor the Smart Object Security Workshop in Paris as an IAB workshop.


### 6. Document Status


#### 6.1. Smart Object Workshop document


Hannes will update draft-iab-smart-object-workshop with two minor changes from Dave Thaler, and then Bernard will issue the Call for Publication.


#### 6.2. ISE Model


Bernard reported that Nevil Brownlee is updating draft-iab-ise-model. Once the new revision is posted, and the open issues are verified to be closed, Bernard will issue the Call for Publication.


#### 6.3 RFC Editor Model v2


Joel reported that the new revision to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 is forthcoming. Bernard reported that Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor) has questions about the RSAG; Joel will talk to Heather offline.


#### 6.4. Anycast Architecture


Danny had to leave the meeting early, so draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications was not discussed.


#### 6.5 Extension Recommendations


Bernard will post the resolution of the open items on draft-iab-extension-recs to the IAB mailing list.


### 7. Pre-IETF meeting scheduling


The board discussed guidelines for scheduling events adjacent to an IETF meeting, and agreed that it would be beneficial to announce any such events within two weeks of the previous IETF meeting. Bernard noted that schedules for the next few IETFs are now posted on the IAB Wiki, so as to enable advanced planning.


### 8. TLD Names


Olaf reported that the IANA strategy list and the Internationalization Program have been discussing an IAB statement on TLD names. Olaf will send the statement to the board for approval. Once the statement is approved, it will be posted to the IAB website and communicated to IANA and the IESG.


The Internationalization Program will discuss a potential workshop on on IDN and TLDs.


### 9. All Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


