
Minutes of the 2012-09-19 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler


##### APOLOGIES


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy reminded the board that the BOF Coordination Call for IETF 85 will be held at 0830 PDT on 26 September 2012.


#### 1.3. Action item review


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 September 2012 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IETF 85 Technical Plenary Topic


The board agreed on network performance measurement as the technical topic for the IETF 85 plenary. Alissa will recruit speakers on this topic and report back to the IAB.


### 3. Single Plenary for IETF 85


After discussion, the IAB agreed to propose a single 3.5 hour plenary (combining the Technical and Administrative plenaries) at IETF 85, with the technical topic to last 60-75 minutes. Russ will forward this proposal to the IESG, and if the IESG is amenable, will work with the Secretariat to reformulate the agenda for IETF 85. Time originally allocated to the second plenary will be reallocated to Working Group and BOF sessions.


The board noted that the post-IETF 85 meeting survey should include questions to gather feedback from the community on having a single plenary.


### 4. IETF 85 Schedule


Bernard asked the board to share information on any related events in Atlanta prior to IETF 85 with the rest of the IAB. Mat Ford noted that the ISOC is holding a Routing Measurements Workshop on the Friday and Saturday prior to the IETF meeting in Atlanta.


### 5. IAB Address for Datatracker Extensions for Alternate Streams


The IAB received a query from the RFC Editor asking what email address the datatracker should use to notify the approving body for IAB stream documents when an I-D under review for publication has been updated. After discussion, the board agreed to set up a new address specifically for this purpose. Bernard will work with Mary to get the new address set up, and will send a reply to the RFC Editor with the new address.


### 6. IAB Status of This Memo text


The board discussed a change proposed by the RSE to the Status of This Memo text on IAB-stream documents. The proposed change would move the sentence “It represents the consensus of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB)” from the end of the paragraph to the beginning. The board had no problem with this change in theory, but noted that the sentence itself would need to be re-worded to avoid confusion as to what “It” was referring to. Dave Thaler agreed to draft a response for Bernard to send to the RSE that points out the grammar issue and asks the RSE to clarify the proposal.


### 7. RFC 2870bis


Danny received an email from Matt Larson on the service expectations of root servers and RFC 2870bis. Danny agreed to forward the email to the IAB and IESG to start a discussion on appropriate next steps.


After discussion, the board also agreed to solicit reports from the RSSAC liaison to be included in the minutes with other monthly liaison reports.


### 8. IANA Program Update


Jari reported that he is working on updating draft-arkko-iana-policy-separation to clarify that this does not propose any updates to current procedures. After discussion, the board agreed that the document would best be handled on the IETF stream.


### 9. Affirmation


Russ submitted draft-iab-modern-paradigm as an IAB-stream document. The board agreed that the current document needs editing to clarify precisely what text was signed as the Principles of the Modern Standard Paradigm. Russ will edit the document accordingly.


### 10. Congestion Control Workshop Report


Hannes reported via email that he plans to finish the Congestion Control workshop report by the end of the month.


### 11. Segregated Queuing


The board discussed potential updates to RFC 5290 and RFC 3714 about segregated queueing and QoS. After discussion, the board agreed that such a document would be better suited to the IETF or IRTF streams, especially if the document can be published as an IETF BCP. The IAB will not work on this document as a body. Spencer and Lars will work on a first draft, and will talk to the Transport Area Directors about advancing the document in the TSVWG Working Group.


### 12. Other Business


Alissa is working to confirm a speaker for the 3 October 2012 tech chat on the technical implications of traffic filtering.


