
Minutes of the 2012-07-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Marc Blanchet
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* David Kessens


##### GUEST


* Eliot Lear (item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


Items on the Atlanta CMCC Event (11.1.) and Program Ownership of Upcoming Events (11.2.) were added to the agenda under Other Business.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


Mary sent the minutes of the 30 May 2012 tech chat to Cameron Byrne for review. The board agreed to wait until Friday, 13 July 2012 for feedback, after which time the minutes of the tech chat will be approved. The minutes of the 13 June 2012 and 27 June 2012 business meetings remain under discussion.


#### 1.5. Ongoing E-mail discussions


##### a. Global Open Standards Development Principles


An email vote on the Global Open Standards Development Principles is currently in progress; only half the IAB has voted so far.


##### b. Response to liaison letter from ONF


Only a few email votes have been received on the proposed liaison letter to ONF. One editorial comment is pending. Once the edit has been made, Bernard will send the response to the ONF, assuming there are no more comments.


##### c. Approval of draft-iab-extension-recs


The board approved draft-iab-extension-recs for publication as an Informational RFC. Bernard will send the request to publish to the RFC Editor.


##### d. Program descriptions and memberships


###### d.1. ITU-T Coordination Program


The board approved the updated ITU-T Coordination Program description and membership list pending the cleanup of editorial nits reported by Dave. Mary will update the public web page for the ITU-T Coordination Program.


###### d.2. Emergency Services Program


The board approved the updated Emergency Services Program description and membership list. Cindy will update the public web page for the Emergency Services Program.


###### d.3 IP Evolution Program


The board is currently reviewing the IP Evolution Program description and membership list. Approval of the Program description and membership list will be completed by email vote.


### 2. ITU-T TSAG Update


Eliot reported on the events of the recent ITU-T TSAG meeting. The TSAG approved draft-iab-rfc3356bis; once the period for commenting on the minutes closes (13 July 2012), Eliot will give Bernard the go-ahead to send the request to publish to the RFC Editor.


The joint liaison statement from the IESG and IAB, “Observations on Contribution 74 to TSAG Concerning Modification of IETF Protocols and Technologies by the ITU-­T [<https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1168/>], was discussed at TSAG; the Chair asked interested parties to work with Germany to come up with a solution.


The ITU-T Liaisons will meet face-to-face at IETF 84 in Vancouver.


### 3. Agenda for meeting with IEEE 802


Discussion of the agenda for the meeting with IEEE 802 was deferred pending an update from Dan Romascanu.


### 4. IETF 84 Technical Plenary


Jon reported that the speaker list for the IETF 84 Technical Plenary has been confirmed. Bernard will update the information on the IETF 84 agenda.


### 5. BOF Signups


Mary asked for volunteers to cover the BOF at IETF 84. Jari agreed to cover RMCAT and Danny agreed to cover DSII. Dave Thaler and Joel are planning to attend RFCFORM if their schedules permit.


### 6. IAB Report for IETF 84


Bernard asked Program Leads to submit their reports for inclusion in the IAB Report for IETF 84 and the upcoming ISOC Board of Trustees meeting by 18 July 2012.


### 7. IETF 84 Agenda


The board discussed the agenda for IAB time at IETF 84. Bernard asked that any Programs that need meeting time let him and Mary know as soon as possible so that arrangements for meeting rooms and catering can be made with the Secretariat.


### 8. IANA Evolution Update


Jari reported that ICANN has been awarded the NTIA contract for IANA functions [<http://www.ntia.doc.gov/press-release/2012/commerce-department-awards-contract-management-key-internet-functions-icann>].


Vernita Harris and Ashley Heineman of NTIA have requested a meeting with the IAB at IETF 84; the IANA Evolution Program will discuss the goals of this meeting over email and report back to the board.


### 9. Update on Congestion Control Workshop


Mary reported that the papers for the Congestion Control Workshop have been uploaded to the Workshop web page, and an announcement has been sent to IETF-Announce. Mary asked for volunteers to help organize the logistics of the Workshop, particularly those concerning access for remote participation; Spencer volunteered.


### 10. NomCom 2012-2013


#### 10.1. IAB Job Description for NomCom


The board approved the IAB Job Description for the NomCom. Mary will send the job description to the NomCom Chair.


#### 10.2. IAB Liaison to NomCom for 2012-2013


The board selected Marc Blanchet as the IAB Liaison to the NomCom for 2012-2013.


#### 10.3 IAB Liaison Instructions


The board approved the Guidelines for the IAB Liaison to NomCom.


### 11. Other Business


#### 11.1. IETF Atlanta CMCC Event


China Mobile invited the IETF/IAB to sponsor the Miracle (Mobile Internet Architecture) Conference in Atlanta in November. The board discussed options, and agreed not to sponsor the event. Spencer will draft a reply to China Mobile declining the invitation.


#### 11.2. Program Ownership of Upcoming Events


Bernard suggested that the IEEE 802/IETF meeting on 25 July 2012 and the IAB/IRTF Congestion Control Workshop on 28 July 2012 be moved under Program umbrellas in order to delineate clear ownership of the events. The board agreed that while finding clear owners for the events is important, it would not be necessary to move them into Programs. Russ agreed to take the lead on the IEEE 802/IETF meeting and Spencer agreed to help with the Congestion Control Workshop.


