
Minutes of the 2012-02-08 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko (incoming IAB)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet (incoming IAB)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear


#### 1.2. Agenda


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Cindy reminded the board the that BoF Coordination call with the IESG is scheduled for Thursday, 23 February 2012.


Bernard directed the board to the Announcements page on the wiki, which will be used to track events that generate website postings and official email announcements.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 18 January 2012 and 25 January 2012 business meetings remain under review.


#### 1.5. Action Item Review


The following action items from previous meetings were marked as pending or in progress:


* Eliot to coordinate with Spencer and the Liaison Oversight Program  

regarding inter-SDO coordination.
* Bernard to post a resolution of open issues on draft-iab-extension-  

recs to the IAB list.
* Dave Thaler/Internationalization Program to start a discussion of a  

potential workshop on IDN and TLDs.
* Hannes to post the Emergency Services Initiative information on the  

public IAB website.
* David Kessens and Bernard to contact Bob Hinden about a document  

clarifying the IAB chair / liaison participation in the IAOC.


### 2. Welcome new IAB Members


Bernard and the board officially welcomed Jari Arkko and Marc Blanchet, the new IAB members who will be seated at IETF 83 in Paris.


### 3. ITU-T Program


Eliot summarized his report to the board on the ITU-T Liaisons offsite meeting held the prior week in Reston, Virginia:


Eliot, Russ and Sally Wentworth are analyzing the implications of the IETF becoming an officially recognized “Standards Development Organization” in the eyes of the ITU-T.


In preparation for the upcoming WCIT, the team reaffirmed the need for collaboration with other standards organizations, and identified IEEE, BBF, MEF and 3GPP as organizations to contact.


At the offsite meeting, the ITU-T Coordination Program agreed that IETF process must be observed in regards to the MPLS-TP OAM.


### 4. IETF 83 Plenary


Hannes gave a brief overview of the IETF 83 Technical Plenary panel session, titled “Implementation Challenges With Browser Security Models.” Hannes will contact potential speakers and will report back to the board at the next IAB business meeting on 22 February 2012.


### 5. IETF 83 Schedule


Bernard directed the board to the IETF 83 schedule page on the wiki, and asked Program and Initiative leads to start filling in time slots on the agenda.


### 6. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Mary reported that she has updated the timeline for the 2012 ISOC Board of Trustees appointment. The board will send a call for nominations ending on 9 March 2012 so that interviews can be conducted at IETF 83.


Mary will contact current ISOC BoT members to see if there are any special requirements for the coming term that should be addressed in the nominee questionnaire. Mary will also set up the mailing list for IAB to use for the confirmation discussion.


### 7. ISOC BoT Report


Bernard reported that the ISOC Board of Trustees will meet in San Jose, Costa Rica on 10 March 2012. Bernard asked all Program and Initiative leads to send him status updates for the IAB Report to the ISOC BoT by 20 February 2012.


### 8. IAB Statement on gTLDs


The board approved the IAB Statement on gTLD rules. Olaf will post the Statement in the correspondence section of the IAB website, with a separate post on the IAB home page. Bernard will send a note to Rod Beckstrom and Steve Crocker of ICANN with a pointer to the Statement; he will also send a pointer to the IETF-Announce mailing list.


The board will discuss next steps on gTLD rules with the IESG at IETF 83.


### 9. Document Status


#### 9.1 draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2


Joel reported that he expects to post a new revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 this week. Once the new revision is posted, he will solicit comments from the IAB, IAOC, RSOC and RFC-Interest lists.


#### 9.2. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Mary indicated that she would ask Danny for an update on the current status of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications.


#### 9.3. draft-iab-extension-recs


Bernard will post the resolution of the open items on draft-iab-extension-recs to the IAB mailing list.


### 10. IAB Retreat


The board discussed potential retreat dates and locations. Both 10-11 May 2012 and 15-16 May 2012 have minimal conflicts for the board members who responded to the Doodle retreat poll. Ross Callon agreed to contact Scott Bradner to see if there is any meeting space available at Harvard during those dates, as well as to contact potential hotels in Harvard Square.


### 11. IAB role in new work


Spencer sent an updated version of the draft statement “IAB Member Roles in Evaluating New Work Proposals” to the IESG and IAB for review. Sean will put this on the next IESG telechat for discussion, and the board will consider approving the statement at the next IAB business meeting on 22 February 2012. Once the statement is approved, it will be posted on the public IAB website.


### 12. All Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


