
Minutes of the 2012-08-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern


#### 1.2. Agenda


Agenda items were added to discuss the IETF/IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting (12) and the Web Security Program (13).


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 29 July 2012 and 31 July 2012 business meetings were approved. The minutes of the IETF 84 Technical Plenary and the 2 August 2012 and 15 August 2012 business meetings remain under review.


### 3. RFC 2870bis


Danny reported that Peter Koch (liaison manager for ICANN RSSAC) is sending email to the RSSAC asking for their perspective on the following issues:


* IPv6 as requisite for all Internet root name servers
* Recommendation regarding whether to update RFC 2870, and in particular, considerations that the IESG & IAB should be aware of.
* RSSAC’s objectives with RSSAC001 and their perspective on moving RFC 2870 to Historic given that it is an IETF BCP.


Danny will report back once an answer is received.


### 4. Upcoming Tech Chats


Hannes confirmed that Sean Turner will lead a tech chat on passwords on 29 August 2012.


The board agreed to invite Rebecca MacKinnon to lead a tech chat based on her book “Consent of the Networked” at the 3 October 2012 meeting.


### 5. ISO/IETF Relationship


This agenda item was deferred until the next IAB business meeting.


### 6. CC Workshop Followup


Spencer reported that he is working on the minutes from the workshop and plans to have them ready for review by the end of the week; Hannes is working on the workshop report.


### 7. Segregated Queuing


This agenda item was deferred until the next IAB business meeting.


### 8. Affirmation of the Modern Global Standards Paradigm


The board discussed the timeline and process for approving the “Affirmation of the Modern Global Standards Paradigm” statement and agreed that the process for approval of an IAB/IESG statement applies.


The board discussed comments received on the statement and agreed that there is only one comment (196) that could result in a potential change to the text. Russ agreed to follow up with the IEEE and the W3C to see if they are comfortable with the proposed change.


Once the IETF Last Call completes on August 24, the IESG and IAB will be asked to vote on the final text, via email.


### 9. IAB Review of “Principles for Unicode Code Point Inclusion in Labels in the DNS”


The IAB Last Call on draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples ends on 29 August 2012. Bernard asked the board to please review and provide comments.


### 10. IANA Evolution


The board discussed the User Documentation requested by NTIA in the IANA contract. A number of existing RFCs are relevant to this request, as well as the SLAs between ICANN and the IETF. In addition to those existing documents, there is a question whether there should be an additional Informational RFC that clarifies the IANA role in policy- making. The board agreed that such an RFC need not be IANA-specific, and that it might be useful to have an RFC that explains how existing processes apply. For example, while contractors may draft documents and participate in discussions, final decisions are in the hands of the IETF leadership.


Jari reported that he will attend the I\* Leaders meeting with Russ and Olaf Kolkman in early September, where IANA Evolution is expected to be a topic.


### 11. EMSERV Liaison Statement to M493


Hannes reported that the draft liaison statement will be discussed on the Emergency Services Program mailing list. Once the Program agrees on the text, they will bring it back to the IAB.


### 12. IETF/IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting


Cindy reported that minutes from the IETF/IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting have been drafted. Cindy will post these on the internal wiki for the board to review in order to approve them at the 29 August 2012 meeting. Once the board and the IEEE 802 leadership have both approved the minutes, they will be posted on the IAB website.


### 13. Web Security Program


The board briefly discussed the Web Security Program description. The board agreed to invite Sean Turner and Lucy Lynch to the 5 September 2012 business meeting to discuss outstanding questions on the Program description.


Hannes reported that the Program has discussed holding a workshop sometime next year.


