
Minutes of the 2012-06-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Ross Callon
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler


##### APOLOGIES


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Spencer Dawkins
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear


#### 1.2. Agenda


The ICANN-IETF-W3C-ISOC-RIR leaders’ meeting, the Congestion Control Workshop and World IPv6 Launch were discussed under item 8, “Other Business.”


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2012 IAB Retreat and the 16 May 2012 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 23 May 2012 business meeting and the 30 May 2012 tech chat remain under review.


### 2. draft-sullivan-dns-zone-codepoint-pples


Dave Thaler asked the board to adopt draft-sullivan-dns-zone-codepoint-pples (currently titled “Principles for Unicode Code Point Inclusion in Labels in the DNS Root”) as an IAB document. Dave noted that the Internationalization Program is currently working on the document to make it more closely match the discussion at the retreat which grouped the principles into categories and hence was more general than just for the DNS root. The program would like to be able to direct ICANN to a “draft-iab” version of the document by 12 June 2012. There were no objections from those present to adopting the document as an IAB draft, and the board tentatively agreed to adopt the document barring any objections sent to the email list by the end of the week, and an updated version of the document will be posted as draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples by 12 June 2012.


### 3. IPv6 and Internet Access


Today is World IPv6 Launch Day, with operators, content providers and vendors announcing commercial support for IPv6. What are the expectations for operational support of IPv6 going forward?


John Curran of ARIN has mentioned that he was approached about the definition of “Internet Access” with respect to IPv6. For example, should a service offering “Internet Access” provide the ability to reach both IPv4 and IPv6 sites?


Looking at the body of IETF operational documents, many written years ago, the expectations are not necessarily clear.


There are IETF documents describing operational best practices that do not mention IPv6 at all. One example is “Root Name Server Operational Requirements” RFC 2870.


RFC 4084 defines terms for Internet Connectivity but does not mention IPv6. As with IPv4, there are several ways that IPv6 access can be supported, and it may not be clear to the customer what they can expect. For example, does the ISP support dual stack or IPv6-only? Is the IPv6 access native or tunneled? Has the operator deployed NAT64 or NAT666? Is there a translating proxy in place?


Danny agreed to work with the IP Evolution Program to draft an IAB Statement relating to operational support for IPv6. This statement may spawn additional work to update relevant RFCs.


### 4. ITU-T Update


Eliot asked the board to review draft-iab-rfc3356bis-02. The goal is to bring the draft to the IAB for approval at the 13 June meeting.


Eliot reported that IEEE has made a submission to ITU-T for handling of works by other standards bodies. The document cites principles similar to those articulated in RFC 5704 as well as mentioning other issues such as copyright. The board discussed ways by which the IAB may indicate support for the IEEE submission, such as a statement made by the ITU-T liaison or submission of a liaison statement.


Eliot noted that the ITU-T’s Joint Coordination Activity on Cloud Computing will meet next week, and asked the board to send any information they would like conveyed at the meeting to him before 11 June 2012.


### 5. IETF 84 Plenary


Jon reported that he is still working to confirm an academic speaker for the panel session at the IETF 84 Technical Plenary. Bernard noted that the Plenary time has been reduced to two hours. As a result, the welcome/reporting portion of the agenda will be held to 15 minutes with an additional 15 minutes for open mike time. This will leave approximately 90 minutes for the technical session.


### 6. Instructions to RFC Editor re handling of IAB Stream documents


Dave Thaler asked the board to review the following so that they can be approved at the next IAB Business Meeting on 13 June 2012:


* The proposed replacement text for the current RFC style guide page [<http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-style-guide/iab-format.txt>]
* The boilerplate for IAB consensus documents


The board agreed to ask the authors of RFC 5741 “RFC Streams, Headers, and Boilerplates” (Leslie Daigle and Olaf Kolkman) to review as well.


### 7. RSOC and RFC-Editor Budget


Joel reported that the RSOC and RSE are beginning work on the annual budget, and that they have questions about how much detail into the budget they should expect from the IAOC. Joel agreed to draft a response to the RSOC and send it out to the board for review.


### 8. Other Business


#### 8.1. ICANN-IETF-W3C-ISOC-RIR leaders’ meeting


Jari briefly summarized the discussions from the ICANN-IETF-W3C-ISOC-RIR leaders’ meeting held the previous week.


#### 8.2. Congestion Control Workshop


Bernard noted that IAB and IESG members are invited to participate in the Congestion Control Workshop on 28 July 2012, and asked those planning to attend to RSVP on the mailing list.


#### 8.3. World IPv6 Launch


Marc noted that on World IPv6 Launch Day, Canada has seen an increase of 800% in the number of websites that are reachable by IPv6.


#### 8.4 IEEE Relationship Report (received from Dan Romascanu, 5 June)



```
a. The IESG response to the liaison letter from IEEE 802.1 went out on
5/10. The re-chartering announcement of PAWS (in the Applications Area)
as not included in the liaison response.  Since the charter includes
the 'need to communicate and invite participation with other relevant
standards bodies and groups' ... 'including but not limited to IEEE 802.11af 
and IEEE 802.22', this information needs to be communicated.

b. IEEE 802.1 held their interim meeting. As they cannot formally
vote on liaisons at interim meetings, no official communication
resulted.

c. IEEE 802.3 held their interim meeting. They committed to send a
response after this meeting about the relation Ethernet and G.998.2
standards, as the IESG put on hold the approval of
draft-ietf-adslmib-gbond-eth-mib-06. The response has not come yet,
and a reminder was sent.

d. Thomas Narten and Donald Eastlake exchanged informal messages with
the IEEE 802.1 leaders and experts on exposing the OAM work in TRILL,
getting input and information about similar work in 802.1

e. Preparation for the leadership meeting in Milpitas - we have 28
people registered on the wiki, 19 IETF, 9 IEEE.  There are a few
likely IEEE attendees who have not yet added their names to the
attendee list on the wiki.  I asked Pat Thaler who will coordinate
the meeting on the IEEE side to make sure that all participants
register before 6/15. If any IAB or IESG participants did not yet
enter the information in the wiki, please do it as well.  I plan
to hold a call with Pat before the end of the month to discuss
details of the agenda, and especially the items in  the afternoon
session about the 'specific areas where collaboration is needed'.
```

