
Minutes of the 2012-04-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes, action items


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


An agenda item on draft-iab-smart-object-workshop was added as 7.7 to address questions from the RFC Editor.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


The board agreed that the statement on the IAB Role in New Work should be sent to IETF-Announce, signed jointly by Bernard as IAB Chair and Russ as IETF Chair. The statement will also be uploaded to the IAB website under “Correspondence”.


Jari agreed to work with Ray Pelletier on a webpage summarizing the IAB/IETF role in IANA Oversight.


BOF Shepherds were reminded to submit their IETF 83 BOF reports to the IESG.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 7 March 2012 tech chat and 14 March 2012 business meeting were approved pending final review from Hannes.


### 2. Meetings


#### 2.1. Upcoming IAB meeting schedule


The IAB agreed to hold teleconferences on 18 April 2012, 25 April 2012, 2 May 2012 and 23 May 2012. The 9 May 2012 meeting was cancelled, as people will be traveling to the IAB retreat.


#### 2.2. Upcoming Tech Chat Schedule


Dave Thaler agreed to lead a tech chat on Network Cost and Power Impact on Hosts and Applications at the 18 April 2012 meeting.


The 2 May 2012 tech chat slot will be used for a regular IAB business meeting.


The board was asked to review the tech chat queue on the wiki and decide on a topic for the 6 June 2012 tech chat.


### 3. 2012 Retreat Planning


The board reviewed the current draft of the IAB Retreat agenda and began assigning people to lead the various discussions.


Alissa agreed to invite Daniel J. Weitzner (Deputy White House CTO for Internet Policy) and Robert McDowell (FCC Commissioner) to speak at the Retreat.


### 4. IETF 84 Plenary Topic


The board discussed several potential topics for the IETF 84 plenary, including software defined networking, security threats on the internet, and World IPv6 Launch results. Marc agreed to write up the potential IPv6-related plenary topic and send it to the board for review. The board agreed to continue developing the other plenary topics for future meetings.


### 5. Liaison Relationships


#### 5.1. IETF-Liaisons Mailing list


Mary noted that the archive link for the ietf-liaisons@ietf.org mailing list returns a 404 error. Cindy agreed to investigate this. Once the archive issue is sorted out, Mary suggested the board have another discussion on the current use and status of the mailing list.


#### 5.2. IAB contact person to the SSAC


Danny McPherson agreed to take over as the IAB point of contact to the SSAC.


#### 5.3. IETF/IEEE 802 Leadership Meeting


Russ reported that there will be a joint IETF/IEEE leadership meeting in Milpitas, CA on 25 July 2012, and that the agenda is beginning to take shape.


#### 5.4. IEEE-SA Liaison Shepherd


Ross agreed to be the IAB Liaison Shepherd for IEEE-SA and IEEE 802. Ross will follow up with Dan Romascanu (liaison to IEEE-SA) about the logistics of the aforementioned leadership meeting.


### 6. IANA Evolution


Russ reported that he and Leslie Daigle met with Assistant Secretary Strickling on 3 April 2012 to discuss the IANA RFP. A one-page summary of IETF-IANA oversight, authored by Ray Pelletier, was left behind, and is now available on the IAB website. The topic of IANA evolution will be discussed further at the IAB Retreat.


### 7. Document Status


#### 7.1 draft-iab-identifier-comparison


Dave Thaler reported that he is working on an update to draft-iab-identifier-comparison to address comments from Marc Blanchet and John Klensin.


#### 7.2. draft-iab-extension-recs


Bernard reported that he is working on an update to draft-iab-extension-recs.


#### 7.3. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa reported that there will be several updates to draft-iab-privacy-considerations as a result of discussions at IETF 83.


#### 7.4. draft-iab-privacy-terminology


Hannes reported that the Privacy Program is still considering whether to merge draft-iab-privacy-terminology with draft-iab-privacy-considerations.


#### 7.5. draft-iab-dns-applications


No update since IETF 83.


#### 7.6. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Danny reported that he plans to have a new revision of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications available shortly.


#### 7.7. draft-iab-smart-object-workshop


The RFC Editor sent questions about the IAB document headers for draft-iab-smart-object-workshop in light of current discussions on the RFC-Interest list “On Authors, Contributors, Editors, and overload.” The board agreed that to use the previously-provided guidance for draft-iab-smart-object-workshop. Dave Thaler agreed to review the current IAB document process and see where clarification is needed for workshop reports.


### 8. Statements


#### 8.1. Request for Comments – OMB Circular A-119


Jorge Contreras has drafted a response to the Request for Comments on OMB Circular A-119. Once the response is finalized, it will be posted to the IAB website.


#### 8.2. IAB Smart Object Statement


Hannes reported that he is working with the IP Evolution Initiative on the IAB Smart Object Statement.


#### 8.3. CA/Browser Forum


The CA/Browser Forum is soliciting feedback on proposed reforms to their organization. Hannes has drafted a response on behalf of the IAB. Hannes will send out an updated draft of the response, and asked the board to review it by close of business on 12 April 2012.


### 9. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The board discussed the ISOC Board of Trustees nominations in an Executive Session. The board selected a candidate for the ISOC BOT. As per the procedures outlined in RFC 3677, the IESG will act as the confirming body for this selection.


