
Minutes of the 2012-01-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (incoming IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (outgoing IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Spencer Dawkins
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear
* Sally Wentworth


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 21 December 2011 business meeting remain under discussion.


### 2. ITU-T Update


a. New ITU-T-Program mailing list  

b. TSAG 3356bis  

c. ITU-T Coordination Program interim  

d. SG-17 Liaison relationship


Eliot reported that he was currently attending the ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Advisory Group (TSAG) meeting and will send a report to the board once the meeting concludes.


The board discussed updating RFC 3356, the MOU between the IETF and the ITU. Eliot previously sent proposed terms of reference for a proposed TSAG Ad Hoc Committee on ITU/IETF Collaboration and Working Methods. The board agreed to the draft terms of reference; Eliot will keep the board informed of any proposed changes from the ITU. Eliot asked the board to consider who they would like to lead the Ad Hoc Committee and plan to discuss it further at the next IAB business meeting.


### 3. IANA Evolution Program


Olaf reported that draft-weil-shared-transition-space-request, the document related to the ARIN /10 proposal (Draft Policy ARIN-2011-5), is currently in IESG Evaluation, and there is no IAB action to be taken at this time.


The board discussed the IAB role in the global-ta@icann.org mailing list discussions; Olaf and Bernard are currently subscribed. The board agreed that Olaf would send an email clarifying that the IAB will have no formal role.


### 4. EU Standardization


Olaf reported that the IAB has been invited to nominate a representative and an alternate to participate in the European Multi-Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation. After discussion, the board agreed to nominate Olaf as the representative and Hannes as the alternate. Olaf will prepare a response to the invitation and send it to the board for review by 18 January 2012.


The board discussed how to handle the underlying structure for participation in the Platform, and agreed that it would fall under the Liaison Oversight Program with Hannes as the liaison shepherd.


### 5. Emergency Services Program


Hannes reported that he has received word that the IAB will receive a response to the letter to the European Commission on Global Interoperability in Emergency Services [[http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2011-2/letter-to-the-european-commission-on-global-interoperability-in-emergency-services/](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2011-2/letter-to-the-european-commission-on-global-interoperability-in-emergency-services/)] soon.


The Emergency Services Program held a conference call on 11 January 2012 and heard presentations from Bernard on the FCC Emergency Accessibility Advisory Committee (EAAC) and from Richard Shockey on the FCC Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC).


The board agreed that the Emergency Services Program description was ready to be posted on the public IAB website. Hannes will post the information.


### 6. Browser IDN Policy


Dave Thaler reported that the Internationalization Program is currently discussing whether the IAB should have a document on suspect names, visually-confusable strings and reputation systems.


Olaf asked the board if there was support for sending a liaison to IANA noting that the gTLD Applicant Guidebook contains a reference to draft-liman-tld-names, which is a work in progress. The board agreed to have the Internationalization Program draft a liaison statement. The Program will also draft a liaison statement to the IESG encouraging publication of draft-liman-tld-names according to the IETF process. The Internationalization Program will send both liaison statements to the board for review.


### 7. Document update


#### 7.a. RFC Editor Model v2


Joel reported that he is working on an update to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2, which is currently expired. Joel plans to circulate the updated draft to the IAB, RSOC and RSE before posting, as the update is extensive.


#### 7.b. Anycast Architecture


Danny was unable to join the call, so draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications was not discussed.


#### 7.c. Smartobject Workshop


Hannes reported that he is working to resolve comments on draft-iab-smart-object-workshop. Bernard clarified that his comment related to potential mis-quotations of workshop participants. Hannes will follow up with Bernard and the workshop participants to clarify whether the quotations are accurate.


#### 7.d. Privacy Workshop


Alissa reported that draft-iab-privacy-workshop is currently in the RFC Editor’s Queue and that the AUTH48 comments have been addressed. The document is expected to be published as an RFC shortly.


#### 7.e. ISE Model


Bernard reported that draft-iab-ise-model is in Call for Approval (ending on January 18) and that one issue has been filed so far (by Dave Thaler). IAB members are encouraged to read the document and CC: Nevil on their comments.


### 8. Executive Director Transition


Bernard reported that Mary Barnes has accepted the IAB Executive Director position. The board welcomed Mary aboard, and thanked Dow for his service. Bernard, Dow and Cindy will work with Mary to help her transition into the role. Mary will provide a bio and photo for posting on the IAB website.


### 9. IAB Mailing Lists and Retention Policy


Dow reported that the iab-scribes@lists.i1b.org, smartobject-participants@lists.i1b.org, ipv6-adoption@iab.org and numbers@ietf.org mailing lists have been closed.


The board discussed the current archiving setups of the remaining IAB mailing lists. The IAB has long had a policy not to archive the IAB mailing list, and new members have been briefed on this policy upon joining the Board. With respect to IAB Programs, the policy has been to allow the Program Chairs to set the archive policy.


To bring mailing list settings into conformance with policy and Program requests, the IAB agreed to turn off archiving and delete existing archives for the iab@iab.org and itu-t-liaisions@iab.org mailing lists.


### 10. IAB Liaison to IAOC


The board discussed the IAB Liaison to the IAOC. David Kessens and Bernard will contact Bob Hinden about producing a joint IAB/IAOC document clarifying IAB Chair/IAB Liaison participation in the IAOC.


### 11. IETF 83 Plenary


Bernard asked the board to brainstorm topics for the panel session at the IETF 83 Technical Plenary. Bernard will start an email thread on the IAB mailing list to start this discussion.


### 12. AOB


There was no other business.


### 13. Executive Session: NomCom IESG Confirmation


The IESG slate confirmation was not discussed due to time constraints. The IESG slate confirmation will be discussed in an executive session on 18 January 2012.


