
Minutes of the 2012-01-04 IAB Teleconference (Techchat and Business Meeting)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


##### GUESTS


* Mary Barnes
* Eliot Lear
* Lynn St. Amour
* Sally Wentworth


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the minutes of the IETF 82 Technical Plenary and the 14 December 2011 business meeting.


### 2. Tech Chat: 2012 WCIT


Sally Wentworth provided the board with an overview of the upcoming World Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT), scheduled for December 2012 in Dubai.


The ITU Plenipotentiary Conference approves International Telecommunications Regulations (ITRs), which are treaty-level agreements that are subject to international law. The ITRs establish general principles for the provision and operation of international telecommunications to:


* facilitate global interconnection and interoperability
* underpin harmonious development and efficient operation of technical facilities
* promote efficiency, usefulness, and availability of international telecommunication services.


The 2012 WCIT was called to consider new and emerging issues for updating the ITRs, which were last updated in 1988. Since that time, there has been tremendous growth in the Internet and wireless telephony as well as Voice Over IP (VoIP).


Sally briefly outlined a few of the proposals currently under review, but noted that it was still too early to know which proposals will gain momentum. Sally noted that ISOC has background information on the ITRs posted on their website at: <http://www.internetsociety.org/itr>.


### 3. TSAG


Eliot reported that there has been interest in updating RFC 3356, the MOU between the IETF and the ITU. Eliot has scheduled a meeting with Bruce Gracie, chair of the ITU Telecommunication Standardization Advisory Group (TSAG) to work out the terms of reference and boundary conditions for updating the MOU; the final terms of reference would be approved by the board.


