
Minutes of the 2012-09-12 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Danny McPherson


#### 1.2. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 22 August 2012 business meeting, the 29 August 2012 tech chat & business meeting and the 5 September 2012 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 25 July 2012 meeting with the IEEE leadership have now been approved by both the IAB and the IEEE 802.


### 2. Technical Plenary Feedback


The board discussed feedback received on the Technical Plenary at IETF 84, including whether it is necessary to include a technical topic at every IAB plenary. The board agreed to further cut back on the amount of reporting done in the plenary in order to allow more time for the technical topic and Q&A sessions in a shorter plenary session.


The board discussed combining the Technical Plenary with the Administrative Plenary, acknowledging that the two plenaries should only be combined if the total time was under 3.5 hours, with one hour for the technical topic. The board will continue to discuss this topic via email and ask the IESG for input once they decide whether the technical topic for IETF 85 can be discussed in an hour.


### 3. IETF 85 Technical Plenary Topic


The board discussed potential topics for the IETF 85 Technical Plenary. Alissa proposed a topic on Network Performance Measurement, and Hannes proposed a topic on Technology Meets Regulation. For both proposals, the board discussed whether it would be possible to cover the topic as well as Q&A time in an hour, but did not reach a conclusion.


Hannes also proposed several shorter technical discussion topics that could use the plenary as a way to gather feedback from the community.


The board will continue to discuss the potential topics via email before going to a vote.


### 4. Segregated Queuing


Discussion of this topic was deferred to the next IAB Business Meeting (19 September 2012).


### 5. RFC 2870bis


Discussion of this topic was deferred to the next IAB Business Meeting (19 September 2012).


### 6. CC Workshop Followup


Hannes reported that he is working on the report from the Congestion Control Workshop, and that he hopes to have a draft for review within the next two weeks.


### 7. I\* Meeting Debrief


Jari reported back on the discussions held at the I\* CEOs meeting, where leaders from ICANN, ISOC, W3C, IETF, IAB, IANA and various RIRs met. Actions coming out of the I\* meeting include (1) developing a more comprehensive road map to the ultimate goal, and (2) a request for the RIRs to propose what needs to be done in the address registry area (e.g., further agreements or policies).


### 8. IANA Program Update


Jari reported that a sub-group of the people at the I\* meeting met to discuss IANA Evolution, led by Elise Gerich. Those in attendance at the I\* meeting seemed to agree with the long-term goal of having less government involvement in IANA processes, although there is not yet consensus as to the best way to approach this.


