
Minutes of the 2012-10-03 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 0. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### APOLOGIES


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* David Kessens


#### GUEST


* Don Blumenthal (Present for 1 only)


### 1. Tech Chat: Internet Filtering (Don Blumenthal)


Don Blumenthal led the IAB in a discussion about internet domain filtering. The following slides were presented:


–Begin Slide Deck–



```
Slide 1: Internet Architecture Board

Domain Filtering Tech Chat
Don M. Blumenthal
Senior Policy Advisor
.ORG, the Public Interest Registry
October 3, 2012

Slide 2: Define

- Domain filtering
- Domain blocking
- Domain seizure
- Domain takedown

Slide 3: Reasons

- Fraud
- Malware
- Bots
- Intellectual property

Slide 4: Actors

- Government
- Private sector
- Internet infrastructure
- Registries
- Registrars
- ISPs

Slide 5: Mechanisms

- Redirect traffic
- Transfer control
- Transfer ownership
- Remove from the zone

Slide 6: Vectors

- Name servers
- Authoritative servers
- Recursive servers
- Registration

Slide 7: Advantages

- May be only effective way to address targeted activities
- Efficiency

Slide 8: Issues – Immediate Technical

- Effectiveness
- Overreaching
- Court order terminology
- DNSSEC

Slide 9: Issues – Extended Technical

- Network operations
- Internet operations
- Intelligence gathering
- CDN usefulness

Slide 10: Issues - Legal

- Jurisdiction
- Due Process

Slide 11: Broader Control

- National proxy system
- Great Firewall of China
- National block
- Arab Spring
- National Internet
- Iran threat
- IETF draft from Chinese citizens
- Visit www.opennet.net

Slide 12: Contact Information

Don Blumenthal
dblumenthal@pir.org
734.418.8242
202.431.0874 (cell)
Skype: donblumenthal
```

–End Slide Deck–


Danny and Hannes asked Don to take a look at a current draft [draft-barnes-blocking-considerations] related to blocking to see if there is anything there that should or should not be included in an IAB-stream document. Don agreed to look at the draft and get back to the IAB.


### 2. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 September 2012 and 19 September 2012 business meetings were approved.


### 3. IETF 85 Technical Plenary


Alissa reported via email that two speakers have been confirmed for the technical portion of the IETF 85 plenary, and that the speakers are meeting next week to develop an outline of the content of each talk for the IAB to review.


### 4. IAB Report to the ISOC Board of Trustees


Bernard reported that the ISOC Board of Trustees meeting is scheduled for 20 October 2012, and that he has been asked to submit slides by the end of the week. The report plan is to cover the developments within OpenStand, the ITU-T Program, the Emergency Services Program and the planned update to RFC 4441 on the IEEE/IETF relationship.


### 5. RFC 2870bis


Danny reported that he has forwarded relevant emails on the RFC 2870bis to the IAB and IESG for discussion. Russ reported that he is planning to put this topic on the agenda for discussion at the Sunday lunch meeting at IETF 85. The board agreed to begin the discussion with the IESG via email so that the face-to-face discussion would be more productive.


### 6. GSS


Russ reported that he is working with Steve Mills from IEEE to make sure that their talks for GSS are complementary. Russ has asked Greg Wood and Sally Wentworth from ISOC for input. The plan is to include a pointer to <http://open-stand.org/>.


### 7. IAB-Stream Errata


Bernard asked the board to review current errata reported on IAB-stream documents. Danny and Joel agreed to propose responses to theerrata on RFC 5741 and RFC 6055. Dave reported that the erratum on RFC 2825 had been forwarded to the Internationalization Program, and the consensus in the Program was to change the status to “Hold for Document Update.” The board was amenable to this suggestion, and agreed to confirm this decision on the mailing list.


### 8. Status of This Memo text


The RFC Series Editor sent a proposed update the “Status of This Memo” boilerplate text for IAB-stream documents. Russ noted that changes to boilerplate text will affect the tools that people use to write internet-drafts. The board agreed to discuss this further on the mailing list.


### 9. OMA Liaison Update


Bernard reported that Spencer has proposed text to send to the OMA letting them know that Murray Kucherawy is stepping down as liaison manager, and that the IAB is not planning to replace him. The IAB will ask Murray to send this note to the OMA as his last act as liaison manager.


