
Minutes of the 2012-07-18 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Marc Blanchet
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Jon Peterson


#### 1.2. Agenda


An item on a potential update to RFC 5741 (13.1.) was added to the agenda under Other Business.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 13 June 2012, 27 June 2012 and 11 July 2012 business meetings and the 30 May 2012 tech chat were approved.


### 2. Confidentiality in IAB Programs


The board discussed the text describing the expectations of confidentiality in IAB Programs. The board agreed to post the text to the Programs page on the IAB website. Spencer volunteered to draft an email to go out to the Program mailing lists with a pointer to that text.


### 3. Response to liaison letter from ONF


The board approved the response to the liaison letter from ONF. Bernard will send the response to the ONF on behalf of the IAB.


### 4. IP evolution program description and membership


The board approved the updated description and membership list for the IP Evolution Program. Mary will update the public web page accordingly.


### 5. IPv6 Privacy Survey


The board discussed the IPv6 Privacy Survey. Hannes will update the survey based on feedback from Dave Thaler. Once Jari and Alissa agree to the final survey and email text, Bernard will send out the survey.


### 6. Global Open Standards Development Principles


Alissa reported that feedback on the Global Open Standards Development Principles had been provided to Steve Mills of IEEE-SA. Further meetings with Steve Mills will be scheduled at IETF 84.


### 7. IANA Evolution Update


Jari reported that the IANA Evolution Program is planning to meet during IETF 84. The date/time will be uploaded to the IAB wiki. Also, Vernita Harris and Ashley Heineman of NTIA had requested a meeting, to introduce the IANA functions contract.


### 8. ICANN Nomcom and BoT appointments


The board discussed the IETF liaison to the ICANN NomCom. Mary agreed to check with the current liaison, Ole Jacobsen, to see if he is willing to serve for another year.


The board discussed the IETF-nominated member of the ICANN Board of Directors. Danny agreed to work with Jari to research the history and lead a discussion on this topic at IETF 84.


### 9. IAB Report for IETF 84


Bernard noted that he is still waiting for slides from some of the Programs to be included in the the IAB Report for IETF 84 and the ISOC Board of Trustees meeting, and asked Program Leads to submit their slides by Friday, 20 July 2012.


### 10. IETF 84 Agenda


The board reviewed the current agenda for IAB time at IETF 84. A discussion of draft-barnes-blocking-considerations was added to the agenda for Sunday; Richard Barnes and Olaf Kolkman will be invited to participate in that discussion.


### 11. Update on Congestion Control Workshop


Mary reported that the Congestion Control Workshop team has found volunteers to take minutes and draft the workshop report. Bernard reported that the agenda is nearly final, and that they are waiting to receive slides from the speakers. Bernard asked any interested IAB members with available time to help review the slides once they are received.


### 12. IEEE 802/IETF Meeting Update


The board discussed the agenda for the IEEE 802/IETF meeting. Russ and Bernard agreed to send an email to Paul Nikolich regarding the agenda and assigned speakers for the meeting.


### 13. Other Business


#### 13.1. Update to RFC 5741


In response to the updated text for the current RFC style guide page and the new boilerplate for IAB consensus documents, the RFC Series Editor asked if the IAB is planning to update RFC 5741. After discussion, the board agreed that no update to RFC 5741 is needed. Bernard will respond to the RSE.


