
Minutes of the 2012-03-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes, action items


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko (incoming IAB)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet (incoming IAB)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative issues were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 7 March 2012 techchat remain under review.


#### 1.5. Action Item Review


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


### 2. IETF 83 Planning


The board discussed the agenda for IAB time at IETF 83. Bernard asked board members to view the schedule on the wiki and update accordingly.


Bernard asked that any Programs that need meeting time let him and Mary know as soon as possible so that arrangements for meeting rooms can be made with the Secretariat.


### 3. IETF 83 BOF Coverage


The board discussed BOF coverage by IAB members at IETF 83. Board members were asked to fill out the BOF coverage page on the wiki as their plans are settled.


### 4. IETF 83 Plenary


Hannes reported that the speakers for the IETF 83 Technical Plenary panel have met via conference call to coordinate their presentations. Hannes has asked that speakers provide their slides by Monday, 19 March 2012.


The board discussed the structure of the plenary as a whole, and agreed that in order to ensure plenty of time for the panelists’ Q&A, that questions on the World IPv6 Launch should be held until the open mic session at the end of the plenary.


### 5. 2012 Retreat Planning


A wiki page has been created for the 2012 retreat; board members were asked to start filling in potential agenda items, including time for Programs and Initiatives.


### 6. IAB role in New Work


Spencer reported that the proposed statement has been discussed in the IESG, and will be discussed further at the joint IAB/IESG meeting on Sunday at IETF 83. Spencer will update the statement again based on the discussions at that meeting.


### 7. NTIA IANA RFP Status


The board discussed the IANA RFP cancellation. The IANA Evolution Program will meet at IETF 83 in Paris, but at this point there is no action for the IAB.


### 8. ARIN /10 Proposal


The IESG approved draft-weil-shared-transition-space-request on 29 February 2012. Ross agreed to send a follow-up note to John Curran to check whether any additional IAB action is needed.


### 9. Program/Initiative refresh


Bernard asked the board to begin thinking about potential new Programs & Initiatives, and looking at which existing ones may be ready to close down.


### 10. IP Evolution Work Plan proposal


Hannes is planning a meeting of the IP Evolution Initiative at IETF 83 to discuss changes to the current work plan, as well as the proposed draft-iab-smart-object-statement.


### 11. HTTP/Web Evolution Work Plan proposal


Hannes suggested adding Julian Reschke to the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative; the board agreed to invite Julian to join. Hannes is trying to organize a meeting of the Initiative at IETF 83 to further refine the work plan.


### 12. IAB Chair Selection


Mary reported that a mailing list has been set up for discussions relating to IAB Chair selection.


### 13. Document Status


#### 13.1. draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2


Joel reported that a new revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 has been posted. The board agreed to begin the Call for Approval on this document, to expire at the Sunday lunch meeting at IETF 83.


#### 13.2. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


No update was provided.


#### 13.3. draft-iab-extension-recs


Bernard reported that he is working on addressing comments received on draft-iab-extension-recs and will have a new revision sometime during or after IETF 83.


#### 13.4. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa reported that a new version of draft-iab-privacy-considerations has been posted that she believes addresses the comments received, but that she has left the tickets open in TRAC so that people can confirm that their issues were addressed. The new revision includes updates to better align it with draft-iab-privacy-terminology.


#### 13.5. draft-iab-privacy-terminology


Hannes reported that a new version of draft-iab-privacy-terminology has been posted, and that the new revision includes updates to better align it with draft-iab-privacy-considerations.


#### 13.6. draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon reported that a new version of draft-iab-dns-applications has been posted and that he believes the document is nearly ready for a community-wide Call for Comment. This document is on the IAB agenda for more in-depth discussion at IETF 83.


#### 13.7. Proposed draft-iab-smart-object-statement


Hannes reported that draft-iab-smart-object-statement will be discussed further at IETF 83.


#### 13.8 draft-iab-identifier-comparison


Dave Thaler reported that a new version of draft-iab-identifier-comparison has been posted that he believes addresses the comments received to date. The document is currently being reviewed by the Internationalization Program.


### 14. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The board discussed the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment in an executive session. Andrei recused himself from the discussion. Discussions will continue via email.


### 15. All Other Business


Hannes reported work is progressing in the Emergency Services Initiative, and that a conference call is scheduled for next week.


Hannes proposed inviting a guest to the IAB dinner on Sunday at IETF 83 to discuss cybersecurity. The board agreed to Hannes’ proposal.


