
Minutes of the 2012-06-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Ross Callon
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler


##### APOLOGIES


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Jon Peterson
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear (present through item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


Bernard reminded board members to RSVP if they plan to attend the IETF-IEEE meeting on 25 July 2012 and the Congestion Control Workshop on 28 July 2012.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 23 May 2012 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 30 May 2012 tech chat and the 6 June 2012 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. ITU-T Update


The board discussed draft-iab-rfc3356bis-03. Eliot noted that he has received a number of comments on the current draft, and will update the document to incorporate some of the suggested changes. The board confirmed that this is a non-normative document, and language will be added to the beginning of the document to emphasize that. Once the new revision is posted, the board will review it again and put in on the agenda for approval at the 27 June 2012 IAB business meeting.


Eliot reported that he is working on a draft liaison statement supporting the IEEE contribution on the use of works of other SDOs. The IEEE contribution appears to be consistent with RFC 5704, as well as dealing with extension mechanisms and copyright issues.


### 3. Confidentiality in IAB Programs


Spencer reported via email before the meeting that the text about the expectations of confidentiality in IAB Programs is on hold pending a discussion between Jari and Hannes about the IANA Evolution Program. Jari reported that he and Hannes have talked offline, and that expectations in the IANA Evolution Program are the same as in other Programs: some things, such as personnel discussions, should be kept confidential; discussions within a Program need not necessarily be made public, but once the IAB takes action on something based on the Program recommendation, that should be made public.


### 4. Instructions to RFC Editor re handling of IAB Stream documents


Dave Thaler previously asked the board to review the following:


* The proposed replacement text for the current RFC style guide page  

[<http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-style-guide/iab-format.tx>t]
* The boilerplate for IAB consensus documents


Based on feedback from Leslie Daigle and Olaf Kolkman (authors of RFC 5741 “RFC Streams, Headers, and Boilerplates”), the board revisited the previous decision to remove the listing of “IAB Members at Time of Approval” (see minutes from 23 May 2012), and agreed to retain it. Dave will update the proposed text accordingly and send it out to the board for review before the next IAB business meeting on 27 June 2012.


### 5. Response to liaison letter from ONF


The board discussed the liaison letter from ONF to IETF [<http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg73633.html>] that was sent to the IAB, IESG and IETF discussion lists. Russ will check with Dan Pitt to see if this should be posted in the IETF Liaison Statements page. The board will discuss action for responding to the letter at the next IAB business meeting on 27 June 2012.


### 6. Web Security Program


The Web Security Program description is still under review pending edits to address open issues. Token: Hannes Tschofenig.


### 7. NomCom


The board is currently updating the IAB job description used by the NomCom; Bernard asked the board to send any comments on the job description to the mailing list and to check to make sure that Program descriptions on the IAB website are current.


The IAB will need to appoint a liaison to the NomCom once the NomCom is seated. Bernard asked for volunteers to nominate themselves. Ross indicated that he would be willing if no one else is; the board decided to defer appointing the liaison to the NomCom until board members who were not at the meeting had a chance to weigh in.


### 8. Other Business


#### 8.1. Update on status of the IETF-IEEE relation


–Begin written report submitted by Dan Romascanu–



```
1. Russ sent earlier today a message updating the liaison sent on 5/10
with information about the rechartering of PAWS see
http://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1160/. The response that came from
Paul Nikolich a couple of hours later mentioned that the IEEE 802.15 and
IEEE 802.16 may also have interest in the PAWs working group.

2. Our liaisons to the ITU-T brought to our attention that the IEEE-SA
prepares a 'Contribution to TSAG from the IEEE on German Contribution
C74' on proposed changes to Recommendation A.5. for the TSAG meeting in
July, suggesting to support that position and coordinate with the
IEEE-SA. I contacted Steve Mills at IEEE-SA on this, his answer was that they are
working on formalizing a plan to get someone to the TSAG meeting to
represent the IEEE, and that he will follow with details in a few days.
We are waiting for their follow-up message to discuss further
coordination.
```

–End written report submitted by Dan Romascanu–


