
Minutes of the 2012-03-25 IAB Business Meeting
Paris, France
------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko (incoming IAB)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet (incoming IAB)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


#### GUESTS


* Kasey Chappelle (via remote)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor)
* Lynn St Amour
* Christine Runnegar


### 2. Administrivia


The board briefly discussed BOF coverage by IAB members at IETF 83.


The board discussed the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment. Ross, Alissa and Bernard volunteered to interview the candidates and report back to the board.


### 3. IAB Leadership


#### 3.1. IAB Chair


Bernard recused himself from the discussion. The board discussed the IAB Chair position in an executive session. Bernard Aboba was re-appointed as IAB Chair for 2012-2013.


#### 3.2. Program and Initiative Leadership


The board discussed the leadership for the IAB Programs and Initiatives, and agreed to the following:


* IANA Evolution Program: Jari Arkko as IAB Lead; Olaf Kolkman as Program Chair
* Internationalization Program: Dave Thaler as IAB Lead
* ITU-T Coordination Program: IAB Lead to be determined later this week; Eliot Lear as Program Chair
* Liaison Oversight Program: Spencer Dawkins as IAB Lead
* Privacy Program: Alissa Cooper as IAB Lead
* RFC Editor Program: Joel Halpern as IAB Lead
* DNS Initiative: Jon Peterson as IAB Lead
* Emergency Services Initiative: Hannes Tschofenig as IAB Lead
* HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative: Hannes Tschofenig as IAB Lead
* IP Evolution Initiative: Hannes Tschofenig as IAB Lead (Hannes will find a Chair for this Initiative)
* IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative: IAB Lead to be determined later, pending the outcome of the Remote Participation BoF.


### 4. Privacy Program


#### 4.1. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa reported that a new revision of draft-iab-privacy-considerations was posted before the meeting in order to coordinate with draft-iab-privacy-terminology. Some of the terms in draft-iab-privacy-considerations have been added to draft-iab-privacy-terminology and expanded upon.


There was discussion of combining draft-iab-privacy-considerations and draft-iab-privacy-terminology into one document; this discussion is ongoing.


Alissa asked the board to review the open issues in TRAC to see if they have been addressed in the most recent version of draft-iab-privacy-considerations.


#### 4.2. draft-iab-privacy-terminology


Hannes reported that draft-iab-privacy-terminology has been updated, and that the scope of the document has been expanded to include concepts as well as terminology. Discussions about combining draft-iab-privacy-terminology with draft-iab-privacy-considerations are still ongoing.


### 5. RFC Editor Program


#### 5.1. Thoughts from the RFC Editor,


Heather briefly updated the board on the current RFC Series hot topics, including updates to the RFC style guide and the upcoming RFC Format BOF.


#### 5.2. draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2


The board approved draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 for publication as an RFC.


### 6. Internationalization Program


#### 6.1. How to proceed with a TLD plan


The board discussed a response to ICANN regarding earlier correspondence on the interpretation of rules in the ICANN gTLD Applicant Guidebook. The board agreed on the response pending edits to be made by Olaf. The response has since been sent to ICANN and posted to the IAB website.


#### 6.2. draft-iab-identifier-comparison


Dave Thaler reported that draft-iab-identifier-comparison will be updated to include suggestions from Marc, and then put into Last Call within the Internationalization Program.


