
Minutes of the 2012-11-08 IAB Business Meeting
Atlanta, GA, USA
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Kevin Fall (item 6 only)
* Stephen Farrell (item 6 only)
* Jörg Ott (item 6 only)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda and Action Items


Spencer Dawkins agreed to take an action item to draft charts to better explain to the community what the IAB does, for possible inclusion in the IETF Overview tutorial. The action item is due in January 2013.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


The board discussed the schedule of upcoming meetings. The next IAB business meeting will be on 28 November 2012, followed by a tech chat on 5 December 2012.


### 2. IAOC position


The Call for Nominations for the IAOC position selected by the IAB has ended. The list of nominations will be sent out to the IETF Announce mailing list to solicit feedback from the community.


### 3. IANA Evolution Update


Jari Arkko reported that there were several IANA-related meetings at IETF 85, including a meeting of the IANA Evolution program. The group will examine potential support models for the IANA protocol parameter function going forward. Work has also begun on the 2013 SLA, which will include reference to RFCs to be edited by IANA staff.


### 4. RSSAC liaison seat


Marc Blanchet reported that the RSSAC is in the process of restructuring, and that it is unclear whether the IETF liaison seat would continue. Marc will follow up with RSSAC and report back to the IAB.


### 5. IAB Chair election procedure


The board discussed the current draft of the IAB Chair election guidelines. Mary Barnes and Joel Halpern agreed to help Marc Blanchet draft the next version of the guidelines.


### 6. IRTF WG Review: Delay-Tolerant Networking Research Group (DTNRG)


Kevin Fall, one of the chairs of the Delay-Tolerant Networking Research Group (DTNRG) [[http://irtf.org/dtnrg](http://irtf.org/dtnrg "DTNRG")], gave a brief overview of the research group’s activities. The group has published 12 RFCs and held 3 IETF interoperability events.


Current work areas include bundle message forwarding, IP neighbor discovery and the datagram convergence layer for DTN.


