
Minutes of the 2012-05-16 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Jari Arkko
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Jon Peterson


#### 1.2. Agenda


Items on Confidentiality (5) and OECD (6) were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Mary asked the board if there were objections to giving Glen Barney at AMS access to the internal IAB server to update the security certificate. There were no objections; Mary will follow up with Glen directly.


Marc noted that he is still waiting to hear back from Cameron Byrne about leading a future tech chat on IPv6. Marc and Dave will follow up with Cameron again and report back to the board.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 25 April 2012 business meeting and the IETF 83 Technical Plenary were approved. The minutes of the 2 May 2012 business meeting remain under discussion.


### 2. IANA past performance questionnaire


Olaf has sent a draft of the response to the IANA past performance questionnaire to the board. The IANA Evolution Program team will collect comments on the draft, and will have a revised version of the questionnaire response for the board to approve at the 23 May 2012 business meeting. It is expected that the IAOC will provide comments on the response, since it is involved in negotiation of the SLAs and monitoring of IANA performance.


### 3. Changes to Program/Initiative structure


The board confirmed the decision from the IAB Retreat to end IAB Initiatives. The current work will be re-distributed as follows:


* The Domain Name System Initiative will close, and the mailing list will be shut down; work on the existing draft will be tracked as an Action Item.


* The Emergency Services Initiative will become a Program with a scoped timeframe of one year.


* The HTTP / Web Evolution Initiative will close, and the mailing list will be shut down; the remaining item (post standardization) will go to a Call for Adoption as an IAB work item, and will be tracked as an Action Item. Additional future work in this area will be tracked in the currently proposed Web Security Program, led by Hannes Tschofenig.


* The IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative will close, and the mailing list will shut down, to be replaced by the IAB Process and Tools Program with Mary Barnes as the IAB lead. Other participants in the Program will include Cindy Morgan, Bernard Aboba and Spencer Dawkins.


* The IP Evolution Initiative will become a Program; Jari has an action item to provide a potential new name as well as a proposed work plan.


The Program Leads will review the current descriptions and membership lists, and bring updates to the board for approval.


### 4. New IAB work


The board discussed new IAB work items.


* Dave agreed to write a draft on Network Cost and Power Impact on Hosts and Applications and bring it to the IAB for consideration.


* Danny and Dave agreed to organize a tech chat on the relationship between the trust hierarchies of RPKI, DNNSEC and CAs.


* The board agreed to ask Jari (who was not present at the meeting) to recommend whether there was any work for the IAB relating to the transition to IPv6.


* Bernard agreed to issue a call for adoption on draft-tschofenig-post-standardization.


* Marc Blanchet agreed to post an individual submission Internet over Port 80, and then organize a tech chat on the topic.


* Alissa, Bernard, Danny and Russ agreed to draft a letter articulating the paradigm of standardization represented by organizations such as the IETF and bring it to the IAB for consideration. Spencer agreed to ask for feedback on this in the Liaison Oversight Program.


* Harald Alvestrand has indicated the potential need for IAB work on Identity within WebRTC, which is related to Identity within the Browser. Hannes will work with Harald to see if this can be accommodated within the Web Security Program under development.


* Dan York has proposed development of a white paper on the architectural issues raised by the “Caller-ID” proposals under consideration at WCIT12, from an IP telephony perspective. Once a draft is produced, a potential next step is to invite Dan to a Tech Chat.


* Ross Callon noted that a white paper on the issues raised by use of BGP for inter-country settlement was being discussed. These include issues relating to the alignment of addressing and routing with national boundaries and the use of BGP communities to identify countries of origin. Once a document is produced, a potential next step is to invite the authors to a Tech Chat.


### 5. Confidentiality


The board discussed confidentiality in IAB Programs. Hannes will follow up with Jari directly about confidentiality concerns within the IANA Evolution Program.


### 6. OECD


The board discussed IAB participation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Internet Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC) [<http://www.internetac.org/>] now that Olaf is no longer on the board. Hannes agreed to invite Olaf to the next business meeting on 23 May 2012 to give context on the relationship.


