
Minutes of the 2012-03-27 IAB Business Meeting
Paris, France
------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet (incoming IAB)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear
* Dan Romascanu
* Lynn St. Amour


#### APOLOGIES


* Jari Arkko (incoming IAB)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


### 2. Liaison Oversight Program: IEEE-SA/IETF Cooperation


Dan reported that he attended a meeting with attendees from ISOC, IETF and IEEE-SA. As the liaison relationship with IEEE-SA is still very new, Dan is still learning about the organization. Both sides are committed to finding ways to work cooperatively together.


### 3. ITU-T Coordination Program: Update on RFC 3356bis


Eliot reported that thus far there has been no response from the ITU-T on the proposed updates to RFC 3356. Eliot sent proposed text for updating Section 3.2.1 (IETF Recognition at ITU-T) to the board, and asked for approval by the end of the week.


### 4. IP Evolution Initiative


Hannes reported that the IP Evolution Initiative met on Sunday. Current work items include:


1. draft-iab-smart-object-workshop: currently in the RFC Editor Queue.
2. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications: work in progress.
3. Proposed draft-iab-smart-object-statement
4. Proposed firewalls document
5. Proposed energy considerations document


Since items 1-3 are likely to be completed in the short term, and items 4 and 5 have implications beyond the IP Evolution Initiative, Dave Thaler questioned whether the IP Evolution Initiative should continue after 1-3 are complete, or whether it should be shut down, with items 4 and 5 handled within other Programs and Initiatives. The board agreed to discuss the future of the IP Evolution Initiative at the upcoming IAB Retreat.


### 5. DNS Initiative: draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon reported that draft-iab-dns-applications has changed significantly from the previous versions, and asked the board to review the most current revision.


### 6. HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative


Hannes reported that the HTTP/Web Evolution Initiative has been considering proposed work on Web Security, including a potential security workshop with the W3C.


