
Minutes of the 2012-11-06 IAB Business Meeting
Atlanta, GA, USA
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Olaf Kolkman
* John Klensin
* Andrew Sullivan


#### REGRETS


* Ross Callon
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)


### 2. EU ICT Update


Olaf Kolkman briefed the IAB on the current status of the Multi-Stakeholder Platform (MSP) for ICT standardization. The role of the MSP is to assess technical specifications. Olaf and Hannes Tschofenig are participating in the MSP on behalf of the IAB; the next meeting will be held in February 2013.


### 3. Document discussion: draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples


Dave Thaler presented an overview of the open issues on draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples after the IETF-wide Call for Comment. The document will be updated, and the changes are substantial enough that the document will go back into IAB Last Call.


### 4. Document discussion: draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon Peterson presented an overview of the open issues on draft-iab-dns-applications. There is concern that some parts of the document are being misinterpreted; work on the document continues in order to remove the ambiguity.


### 5. Document discussion: draft-blanchet-iab-internetoverport443


Alissa Cooper asked about the current status of draft-blanchet-iab-internetoverport443, which was previously sent to the IP Evolution Program for discussion. Dave Thaler reported that the Program was not yet ready to make a recommendation on the document. Jari Arkko reported that the document is on the IP Evolution Program’s agenda to discuss on Friday at IETF 85. The board agreed to hold off an adopting the document until they hear back from the IP Evolution Program.


### 6. Document: draft-iab-modern-paradigm


Bernard Aboba reported that the IETF-wide Call for Comment on draft-iab-modern-paradigm ended on 1 November 2012. Russ has resolved requests to change the text of the OpenStand statement as “won’t fix” since the document is intended to be a record of the OpenStand statement signed by the IAB and IESG Chairs. A face to face meeting of the OpenStand signing organizations is being planned. If it does not occur in the next few weeks, it is likely to slip into 2013 due to the holidays. The board agreed to wait until after the face-to-face meeting to progress draft-iab-modern-paradigm further.


