
Minutes of the 2012-01-18 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (incoming IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dow Street (outgoing IAB Executive Director)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Olaf Kolkman


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 4 January 2012 techchat and business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 21 December 2011 business meeting remain under discussion.


### 2. ITU-T Program


Andrei reported that Eliot sent his report on the ITU-T TSAG meeting to the board. The TSAG will send a liaison to the IETF on updating the MOU between the IETF and the ITU-T. The board will discuss this further once the liaison is received.


### 3. Question regarding definition of Recognized Standards Body


The board discussed a question from IANA regarding the definition of a “recognized standards body,” in the context of RFC 4288.  The board concluded that currently there is no such concept, and the IAB decided not to establish such a concept at this time. Russ took an action item to take up the question of what to do about RFC 4288 with the IESG.


### 4. Document Status


#### 4.1. ISE Model Document Call for Approval and RFC Editor Model v2


The board discussed whether draft-iab-ise-model would obsolete RFC 5620, and agreed that draft-iab-ise-model and draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 together would obsolete RFC 5620. Joel will add text to draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 noting that upon publication, RFC 5620 will be moved to Historic status.


Bernard reported that three open issues on draft-iab-ise-model have been sent to Nevil Brownlee for resolution. The board agreed to send draft-iab-ise-model to the RFC Editor for publication once those issues have been resolved.


#### 4.2. Smart Object Workshop Report


Version -09 of draft-iab-smart-object-workshop has been posted. Dave Thaler will review this version to see if it addresses his issues. If so, the document will be sent to the RFC Editor for publication.


#### 4.3. Privacy Workshop Report


Alissa reported that draft-iab-privacy-workshop was published as RFC 6462 on 17 January 2012, and requested that a note be posted to the IAB website.


### 5. IETF 83 Plenary


The board agreed on “Application Layer Internet Security” as the plenary topic for IETF 83. Hannes agreed to bring a proposal for the panel format and potential speakers to the board for discussion at the next IAB business meeting on 25 January 2012.


### 6. All Other Business


The board briefly discussed the upcoming Smart Object Security Workshop being planned in Paris immediately preceding IETF 83. The board will discuss this further at the next IAB business meeting on 25 January 2012, including whether to sponsor it as an IAB workshop.


### 7. Executive Session: NomCom IESG Slate Confirmation


The IESG slate confirmation was discussed in an executive session.


