
Minutes of the 2012-05-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Several items from the internal action item list were reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 18 April 2012 tech chat were approved. The minutes of the IETF 83 Technical Plenary remain under review.


### 2. IETF 84 Plenary Topic


The board decided upon Software Defined Networking (SDN) as the plenary topic for IETF 84. Jon Peterson agreed to write up a description for the panel session. It was noted that the IESG has decided to reduce the time for the Technical and Administrative Plenaries to two hours each. This implies that reports would need to be cut short or eliminated, and that there will be no time on the IETF 84 plenary agenda for a report on World IPv6 Launch. Marc will work to connect potential speakers to alternative venues for World IPv6 Launch discussions (v6OPS, ISOC lunch, etc.).


### 3. June Tech Chat


Marc and Dave will invite Cameron Byrne to speak on IPv6 deployment at a future IAB tech chat, date to be determined (likely 30 May 2012, 6 June 2012 or 13 June 2012).


### 4. 2012 Retreat Planning


Bernard briefly updated the board on recent changes to the IAB Retreat agenda. The board agreed to invite Bob Hinden to attend the keynote sessions at the Retreat; Mary will follow up with Bob accordingly. Members of IAB Programs and Initiatives who are local to the area may also attend those sessions in person.


Bernard asked presenters to send their slides to Cindy for posting on the wiki before the Retreat.


Bernard and Mary discussed support for remote participation at the retreat. Program/Initiative leads are requested to update their sessions with requested A/V and remote presentation capabilities. By default, WebEx will be provided to enable remote participation. Where this is likely to be inadequate (such as where remote presentation is needed), Skype can be used. Based on input from the leads, Mary will follow up with Alissa regarding the room setup and A/V setup.


Bernard reminded Program and Initiative leads to notify the membership of the remote participation arrangements, once the final schedule is posted over the weekend.


Mary reminded board members to RSVP to Alissa for the informal dinner on Wednesday evening and the formal dinner on Thursday evening.


### 5. IAB as author


The board discussed RFC Editor handling of IAB Stream RFCs. The board agreed that “Internet Architecture Board” should not be listed as a document author for future IAB Stream documents. If technical changes are made during AUTH48, the RFC Editor should contact the individual members of the IAB who authored the document; if the document was not authored by a member of the IAB, the RFC Editor should contact the IAB Chair or person previously designated by the IAB Chair.


Dave Thaler agreed to draft updated text for the RFC Style Guide (see <http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc-style-guide/iab-format.txt>) with directions for how the RFC Editor should handle technical changes in AUTH48 for IAB Stream documents, as well as boilerplate text to be used for IAB consensus documents since “Internet Architecture Board” will no longer be listed as an author.


### 6. Confidentiality in IAB programs


Spencer sent updated text about the expectation of confidentiality in IAB Programs out to the board for review. In order to give the board time to review the text, this will be discussed further at the next IAB business meeting (23 May 2012).


### 7. IPv6 Privacy Survey


The board agreed that once the IP Evolution Initiative and the Privacy Program sign off on the text of the IPv6 Privacy Survey, and Hannes provides the text of an announcement message, Cindy will post the survey to the IAB website and Bernard will send the announcement out to IETF-Announce.


### 8. IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative


Currently, the remote participation facilities utilized by the IETF and IAB do not support IPv6. Since commercial conferencing services have been slow to embrace IPv6, this may make it difficult for the IETF to require support for IPv6 in a Remote Participation Service RFP.


Since the goal of the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative is to enable IAB business (including conferencing) to be conducted over IPv6, how do we break the logjam?


Marc Blanchet noted that audio conferencing products supporting IPv6 are now mature enough to use in production, so that he believed that it would be feasible for the IETF to host a production quality conferencing service operating over IPv6. Marc noted that he had brought up several such services as part of his work.


Since audio conferencing over IPv6 is relatively mature, Bernard suggested that the IPv6 for Business Initiative focus its work plan on testing of IPv6 web conferencing and video in addition to audio. A test platform operating over an IPv6 tunnel to SIXXS is now online; Bernard and Spencer are using it on a regular basis. As the platform stabilizes, members of the IPv6 for IAB Business Initiative will be added.


Marc cautioned that IPv6 tunneling may not provide the required performance or routing reachability; his recommendation was to transition the service to a well-supported native IPv6 hosting environment as soon as possible once the basic functionality is validated. Jari agreed.


### 9. Document Status


The status of active IAB documents was reported via email prior to the meeting.


#### 9.1. draft-iab-identifier-comparison


Dave Thaler is working on a revision of the document to address comments from John Klensin before sending the document out for IAB review.


#### 9.2. draft-iab-extension-recs


The document is expected to be updated shortly.


#### 9.3. draft-iab-privacy-considerations/draft-iab-privacy-terminology


The documents require additional updates based on Program feedback and issues in the tracker.


#### 9.4. draft-iab-dns-applications


The document has been updated to address issues in the tracker. The document will be discussed in further detail at the IAB retreat.


#### 9.5. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


The document will be updated based on the issues in the tracker.


### 10. Other Business


Other business related to the 2012 IAB Retreat has been included above under section 4 (2012 Retreat Planning).


