
Minutes of the 2012-02-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, approval of minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko (incoming IAB)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet (incoming IAB)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### APOLOGIES


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Olaf Kolkman
* Danny McPherson
* Sean Turner (IESG Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda


No agenda items were added.


#### 1.3. Administrivia


Cindy reminded the board the that BoF Coordination call with the IESG is scheduled for Thursday, 23 February 2012 at 0830 PST.


The board agreed to hold a regular business meeting on 29 February 2012.


The board agreed to a techchat topic of “Technology and Regulation” for 7 March 2012. Hannes will contact a speaker from the FCC to present.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 18 January 2012, 25 January 2012 and 8 February 2012 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.5. Action Item Review


The following action items from previous meetings were marked as pending or in progress:


* Eliot to coordinate with Spencer and the Liaison Oversight Program regarding inter-SDO coordination.
* Olaf/I18N Program to correspond with the IESG regarding updates to RFC 1123 with respect to TLDs. This discussion will occur on Sunday 25 March 2012 at IETF 83.
* David Kessens and Bernard to contact Bob Hinden about a document clarifying the IAB chair / liaison participation in the IAOC.
* Bernard to talk to Leslie Daigle and John Klensin about the original context for liaison with ISO.


### 2. Retreat Dates and Location


The board agreed to hold their retreat on 10-11 May 2012 in Washington, D.C. Alissa volunteered to provide meeting space at CDT, and asked the board to send her their hotel dates.


### 3. IAB role in New Work


Spencer reported that he is working on an update to the draft IAB statement “IAB Member Roles in Evaluating New Work Proposals.” Once all comments are incorporated, Spencer will send the updated statement to the IESG for review.


### 4. BoF Shepherd for SDN


Joel agreed to shepherd the Software Driven Networks (SDN) BOF being planned for IETF 84 in Vancouver.


### 5. IETF 83 Schedule


Bernard directed the board to the IETF 83 schedule page on the wiki, and asked Program and Initiative leads to start filling in time slots on the agenda.


### 6. IETF 83 Plenary


Hannes reported that he is working to finalize speakers for the IETF 83 Technical Plenary panel session, titled “Implementation Challenges With Browser Security Models.” Hannes asked if the IAB had funds to cover travel expenses for one of the speakers; Bernard will check the budget and report back.


### 7. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Bernard sent a solicitation for candidates for the Internet Society Board of Trustees on 10 February 2012. The nomination period closes on 9 March 2012; Bernard will send a reminder to the IETF-Announce list soon.


### 8. ISOC BoT Report


Bernard posted a draft of the IAB report to the ISOC Board of Trustees to the IAB mailing list. Once updates to the slide on the Internationalization Program are incorporated, the report will be ready to present at the ISOC Board of Trustees meeting on 10 March 2012.


### 9. EMSERV Charter and membership


The board approved the updated text and membership list for the Emergency Services Initiative. Cindy will post this to the IAB website.


### 10. Program and Initiative leadership


Mary asked the board to begin thinking about leaders for the IANA Evolution and ITU-T Coordination Programs, as the current leaders will be stepping down from the board at IETF 83. Mary also noted that the board will select the IAB Chair for the coming year at IETF 83.


### 11. Document Status


#### 11.1. draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2


Joel reported that a new revision of draft-iab-rfc-editor-model-v2 was posted on 9 February 2012. He has received comments back and is working on incorporating those into the next revision.


#### 11.2. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Mary has asked Danny for an update on the current status of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications.


#### 11.3. draft-iab-extension-recs


Bernard posted a resolution of the open issues on draft-iab-extension-recs. The board agreed that Bernard would send a Call for Approval to the IAB mailing list, which will last until 7 March 2012.


#### 11.4. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


Alissa reported she has been working on an update to draft-iab-privacy-considerations with the help of the Privacy Program, and that she hopes to post the new revision by 2 March 2012.


#### 11.5. draft-iab-privacy-terminology


Hannes reported that he has received feedback on draft-iab-privacy-terminology and is working on updating the document accordingly. Hannes will send a pointer to the current working draft to the IAB mailing list for further comments.


#### 11.6. draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon reported that draft-iab-dns-applications was updated before IETF 82 in Taipei; he will work with Olaf to discuss current feedback and next steps for the document.


### 12. IETF liaison to IEEE-SA


The board agreed to appoint Dan Romascanu as IETF liaison to IEEE-SA. The announcement of the appointment will be posted to IETF-Announce as well as the IAB website, and the IETF liaison webpage will be updated.


### 13. All Other Business


Bernard asked the board to start thinking about technical topics for discussion at IETF 83 and the upcoming IAB retreat. Mary reminded the board that there is a page on the wiki to list potential technical topics.


Dave Thaler reported that there was errata reported on RFC 2825, “A Tangled Web: Issues of I18N, Domain Names, and the Other Internet protocols.” This is an IAB-stream RFC related to I18N. Dave suggested bringing the errata to the Internationalization Program for a recommendation; the board agreed to proceed with this plan.


