
Minutes of the 2013-12-18 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that AMS will be closed for the holidays between 24 December 2013 and 1 January 2014. She also asked the IAB to take note of the email thread about scheduling the BOF coordination call for IETF 89.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 27 November 2013 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 11 December 2013 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Meeting at White House


Russ Housley reported that he and Jari Arkko met with J Michael Daniel, Special Assistant to the President and Cybersecurity Coordinator. The main topic of discussion was IANA; Russ and Jari reiterated the IETF position on the IANA model [see <http://www.internetsociety.org/sites/default/files/is-internetresources-201308-en.pdf>].


They also discussed the ITU Plenipotentiary Conference 2014; Russ Housley noted that J Michael Daniel is very supportive of the multi-stakeholder model for Internet governance.


### 3. /1net and the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance


The IAB discussed the steering committees for /1net, and agreed that anyone who is interested in participating can self-nominate; the IAB will not send any nominations.


Eliot Lear presented a draft presentation showing the current Internet governance arena. He noted that while the committee space is subject to change, especially in regards to the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance planned for Brazil, that this information might be helpful for a future IGOVUPDATE BOF. The IAB reviewed the slides and provided Eliot with feedback for the next version.


The IAB noted that there currently does not look to be a clear way for the Internet technical community to provide input into the Brazil meeting. Jari Arkko suggested working with ISOC; Eliot Lear suggested inviting someone from ISOC to attend a future IAB business meeting to discuss this further.


Alissa Cooper suggested a future tech chat to discuss IGF and how /1net relates to it. She agreed to look for a speaker for such a tech chat.


### 4. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


Dave Thaler presented a list of potential topics related to mobile payments, including:


* Bitcoin’s success in spite for factors stacked against it
* The Merchant Customer Exchange (MCX)
* Mobile wallets and Near Field Communication (NFC)
* PayPal


Dave Thaler noted that the week following IETF 89, the Retail Business Technology Expo (http://www.rbtexpo.com/) will be held in London, so there may be synergy there with speakers who will already be traveling to London for that conference.


Several IAB members noted that they thought mobile payments would be an interesting and informative topic for the IETF 89 Technical Plenary, although they are not personally familiar with the space. Hannes Tschofenig noted that some payment solutions use OAUTH; Dave Thaler agreed that the plenary should focus on the areas that are relevant to to the IETF community.


The board agreed to discuss this topic further at the next IAB business meeting.


### 5. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Marc Blanchet formally recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment was discussed in an Executive Session.


### 6. Executive Session: NomCom


Marc Blanchet re-joined the teleconference. Jari Arkko and Alissa Cooper formally recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference. A communication from the NomCom was discussed in an Executive Session.


