
Minutes of the 2013-07-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Xing Li


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The IAB agreed to hold a regular business meeting on 17 July 2013. The IAB will not hold a meeting on 24 July 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was briefly reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 July 2013 Tech Chat & Business Meeting remain under review.


### 2. draft-blanchet-iab-2870bis


The board discussed the update to RFC 2870 (BCP 40). Since 2870bis is also intended to be a BCP, it will be processed as an AD-sponsored document on the IETF stream, rather than in the IAB stream. The board discussed whether the draft should be posted with a “draft-iab-” filename to indicate that it is an IAB document, even though it will be processed in the IETF stream. Dave Thaler pointed out that there are several precedents for doing so. After the discussion, the board agreed that Marc Blanchet would re-post the internet-draft as draft-iab-2870bis. Jari Arkko agreed to begin the process to AD-sponsor draft-iab-2870bis in the IETF stream.


### 3. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications-09


Dave Thaler reported that Eric Osterweil currently holds the pen on draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications, and that they plan to post an update before the I-D submission deadline for IETF 87 that addresses comments received to date during the IETF-wide Call for Comments.


### 4. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


Bernard Aboba and Mary Barnes reported that they are still trying to confirm an additional speaker to address the “Lessons Learned” portion of the Technical Plenary on the OPUS Codec. If they are unable to confirm an additional speaker, one of the already-confirmed speakers will address that portion of the topic.


### 5. IAB Agenda at IETF 87


Russ Housley briefly reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 87. Cindy Morgan will send a call for agenda items for the IAB Business Meetings during IETF 87.


### 6. NTIA Update


Jari Arkko reported that he and Russ Housley met with NTIA on 26 June 2013. One topic of discussion was IETF input on the U.S. positions for the upcoming [ITU Plenipotentiary Conference](http://www.itu.int/en/plenipotentiary/Pages/default.aspx "Plenipot"). The board agreed to add the Plenipotentiary Conference to the joint IAB-IESG agenda for Sunday in Berlin, as well as a second agenda item on the Plenipotentiary Conference during the IAB Business Meeting later that day. The board agreed to invite Scott Mansfield and Sally Wentworth to attend those discussions.


### 7. Dotless Domain Name Statement


The board approved the IAB Statement, “Dotless Domains Considered Harmful.” Cindy Morgan will post the statement on the IAB website, and Russ Housley will send a pointer to the statement to interested parties.


### 8. IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee


Eliot Lear asked that those who are willing to help him interview candidates for the IETF delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee during IETF 87 send him email to coordinate schedules.


The board agreed to send a brief email to each of the candidates, asking them what their goals are for this ICANN NomCom, and to outline any relevant experience they have with ICANN. Eliot Lear will follow up with the candidates.


### 9. ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests


The deadline to submit comments on the ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests is 16 July 2013. In the IANA Evolution Program, Andrei Robachevsky outlined a few salient points that the IAB might want to submit. Eliot Lear agreed to take those points and draft an IAB response to the ICANN Consultation by 11 July 2013. Russ Housley will start an e-vote on Eliot’s proposed text (to conclude on 15 July 2013), so that the IAB can submit their comments before the deadline.


### 10. Executive Session: RFC 6852 appeal


The board discussed the RFC 6852 appeal in an Executive Session.


Russ Housley will work with Cindy Morgan to update the Appeals page on the IAB website to add a list of information that should be included when submitting an appeal to the IAB.


