
Minutes of the 2013-09-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Several new items were added to the end of the agenda.


The board agreed to hold a regular business meeting on 2 October 2013 and a tech chat on Internet hardening on 9 October 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 11 September 2013 business meeting were approved.  The minutes of the 18 September 2013 tech chat and business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Liaison updates


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
24 September 2013

Topics:

 I. Internet ON Conferences
II. DNSSEC Deployment
III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
IV. WSIS+10 Review
 V. ISOC Combating Spam Seminar for Policy Makers
VI. UK IGF

I. Internet ON Conferences
The last 2 Internet ON (ION) Conferences of the year are coming up soon:
	ION Krakow, 30 September 2013 (with PLNOG)
	ION Toronto, 11 November 2013 (with Canadian ISP Summit)
More information:  http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/ion/

II. DNSSEC Deployment
ISOC is continuing work to accelerate the deployment of DNSSEC through 
our Deploy360 web portal, our ION conferences and other industry 
efforts.  Over the past year ISOC has established a public "DNSSEC 
Coordination" mailing list and held monthly public conference calls that 
have brought together people from across the DNS industry to work on a 
series of initiatives. We have also partnered with the DNSSEC Deployment 
Initiative to publish maps related to DNSSEC and to sponsor DNSSEC 
workshops at ICANN meetings.

III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
Chaired by Christine Runnegar, the group discussed privacy 
considerations associated with the draft Web Cryptography API and draft 
Web Crypto Key Discovery API on its latest call on 22 August 2013. PING 
will follow up with a privacy review of these draft specifications. For 
an informal chairs' summary, please see:http://lists.w3.org/Archives/
Public/public-privacy/2013JulSep/0066.html

IV. WSIS+10 Review
The WSIS+10 High Level Event will be organized by the ITU on 13-17 April 
2014, in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. Following the first phase of the WSIS 
Review process initiated by UNESCO in February this year, this extended 
version of the WSIS Forum will assess progress made in the 
implementation of the WSIS outcomes (2003 and 2005) related to the WSIS 
Action Lines, with a view to developing proposals on a new vision beyond 
2015, potentially exploring new targets. The preparatory process is 
comprised of an Open Consultation Process that will produce two draft 
Outcome Documents: 1/ a draft WSIS+10 Statement on the Implementation of 
WSIS Outcomes and 2/ a draft WSIS+10 Vision for WSIS Beyond 2015 under 
mandates of participating agencies: http://www.itu.int/wsis/review/mpp/

ISOC’s written contribution, submitted by Constance Bommelaer, is 
available here:http://www.internetsociety.org/doc/wsis10-high-level-
event-open-consultation-process-official-submission-form-1

V. ISOC Combating Spam Seminar for Policy Makers
Co-sponsored by the African Telecommunications Union (ATU) and organised 
by Karen Mulberry in Nairobi on September 9th, the Internet Society held 
its first workshop on combating spam directed at informing policy makers 
throughout Africa on the process and partnerships needed to better 
address unwanted forms of electronic communication.

Spam experts from around the globe and ISPs from within Africa presented 
their experiences and examples of how: some governments have drafted 
minimal legislation to define spam with enforcement criteria that work; 
industry associations such as MAAWG, LAP and ECO discussed how they work 
in partnership with governments, ISPs, network operators and bulk mail 
distributors to develop best practices and codes of conduct to mitigate 
spam; and technical experts provided details on the tools and 
operational choices that can be used to limit the impact of spam on a 
network and end users. There were over 97 policy makers and network 
operators in attendance at this workshop.

Details of the event, including the presentations can be found at 
http://www.internetsociety.org/african-telecommunications-union-atu-
combating-spam-policy-makers. The next workshop on combating spam for 
policy makers will be in Latin America on October 7th.

VI. UK IGF
ISOC, represented by Konstantinos Komaitis, participated in and spoke at 
the UK IGF (10 September) on the priorities for governments when 
attending conferences related to cyberspace. We highlighted the need for 
governments to support the open, interoperable and generative Internet. 
We emphasized that the social and economic benefits we are currently 
experiencing because of the Internet are highly connected with the way 
the Internet is designed and has operated for many years. We emphasised 
the need for open standards to continue to be ingrained in the 
Internet's architecture and drew the attention of the UK government to 
the OpenStand paradigm.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Barry Leiba–



```
Recent new working groups:
- Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (stir) [chairs Russ Housley,
  Robert Sparks]

Recently rechartered working groups:
- Dynamic Host Configuration (dhc) [approved on 9/12]

Current new chartering:
- DTLS In Constrained Environments (dice) [IETF review, on 9/26]
- IPv6 over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4e (6tisch) [IETF review, on 
  9/26]
- Active Queue Management and Packet Scheduling (aqm) [IETF review, on 
  9/26]
- DNS-SD Extensions (dnssdext) [internal review, on 9/26]
- IPv6 over networks of resource-constrained nodes (6lo) [IETF review, 
  on 10/10]

Current rechartering:
- IPv6 Maintenance (6man) [internal review, on 9/26]
- INtermediary-safe SIP session ID (insipid) [internal review, on 9/26]
- MBONE Deployment (mboned) [IETF review, on 10/10]
- Operational Security Capabilities for IP Network Infrastructure
  (opsec) [internal review]

Pending new chartering:
- Source Packet Routing in Networking (spring) [informal review]

Recently closed working groups:
- Reliable Multicast Transport (rmt)

Personnel changes:
- ppsp, Stefano Previdi stepping down as chair; replaced by Ning Zong
```

–End IESG Liaison Report–


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair



```
--Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert--

- *Still* in the usual lull after a meeting.

- Trying to push out some RFCs before the next meeting.

- Looking for an RG to review for IETF-88. CFRG seems to have some votes 
  for it. Can the IAB decide if this is the one they want?

- Trying to drum up nominations for the 2014 ANRP.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1. RSE Report
* RFC Format Design Team
A BoF request has been submitted for IETF 88 to discuss with the
community the results of the Design Team's work over the last few
months.  We have some very good material forming on the RSE wiki
(https://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/doku.php?id=design:start).  Next
steps include drafting up a document of the proposed requirements for
the community to have a chance to review before the BoF in Vancouver.

* RFC Editor meeting - outputs
The focus of this meeting was on implementation and operational details
for the current projects underway, including the Format changes and the
Style Guide.  We discussed the details on citations, the potential use
of Expert Reviewers for UTF-8 and Unicode code points, how to mitigate
implementation concerns on tool changes, specific structure and layout
for the RFC Editor website, possible enhancements to the errata system,
and more.  Some of the discussion was in the form of brainstorming on
the possibilities of change, and other areas were detailed reviews of
existing documents (i.e., Style Guide) and prototypes (i.e., RFC Editor
website)

* Upcoming activities (and ideas for activities)
Heather will be looking for a convenient, practical opportunity set up a
meeting with the editorial counterparts in other SDOs, in particular the
W3C and IEEE.

Heather is registered to attend two seminars offered by the
International Association on Scientific, Technical, and Medical
Publishers towards the end of this year.  The focus of those seminars is
on innovations in the field and electronic publishing.  If these
sessions prove worthwhile, she intends to pursue making the RFC Editor a
member of this organization as a way to stay current (and perhaps
influence) changes in this area of the publishing industry.  The RSOC is
supportive.

2. RPC and Publisher
* September stats 
Note: the RFC Editor is forecasting few documents this year than last,
as there has been significant WG turnover (old ones closed, new ones
created).  The expectation is to see an increase in 12-18 months as the
new WGs start to produce documents.

With this slight slow down in submissions, the RPC is taking the
opportunity to focus on cross-training, QA testing xml2rfc v2, and to
look at potential changes to the RFC Editor website.
```

–END RFC Editor Liaison Report–


#### 2.5. ICANN Liaison


Dave Thaler suggested that the IAB receive and review monthly reports from our ICANN liaison. Andrew Sullivan replied that he is working on that, and the IAB should expect to see such in the future.


### 3. IETF 88 Technical Plenary


The board discussed the structure for the IETF 88 Technical Plenary on Internet Hardening. The board agreed on a 2.5 hour plenary on the morning of Wednesday, 6 November 2013. The technical portion of the plenary will include three speakers and a Q-and-A period. Hannes Tschofenig will update the outline for the plenary and follow up with the speakers about content.


The board agreed that it would be highly desirable to have a professional transcript of the plenary.


### 4. “Status of this memo” text


The board discussed a request from the IESG to add alternative boilerplate options for documents published on the IETF stream without IETF consensus. Several people noted that the Independent Submission stream may be a more appropriate place for such documents than the IETF stream. Jari Arkko will add this topic to the agenda for the joint IAB/IESG meeting on Sunday at the IETF meeting in Vancouver.


### 5. Security Program


The board agreed to add Stephen Farrell and Sean Turner as non-IAB members of the Security Program.


Hannes Tschofenig will revise the current Security Program description for posting on the IAB website, to take into account work on Internet hardening.


### 6. London Workshop on Internet Hardening


The board agreed to hold an IAB workshop on Internet Hardening in London prior to IETF 89. Bernard Aboba, Alissa Cooper, Russ Housley, and Hannes Tschofenig will work with Stephen Farrell to put together an outline for the workshop.


### 7. Statement on NSA and Open Standards


Russ Housley reported that the statement on NSA and Open Standards is currently being reviewed by the other OpenStand signers. Russ will forward the final text to the IAB once it is approved.


### 8. Potential comment on NIST re-opening of SP 800-90A


The IAB agreed to provide comments on NIST Special Publication 800-90A (Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators), encouraging an open and transparent process. Bernard Aboba will draft the IAB statement and send it to Alissa Cooper and Russ Housley for review before bringing it back to the board. The deadline to provide comments is 6 November 2013.


### 9. Wrap-up from the RIPE Roundtable


Eliot Lear and Andrew Sullivan reported on the recent RIPE Roundtable meeting, noting that it was a good discussion and helpful for building bridges.


### 10. IGF IETF Open Session Plan


The board discussed the plan for the IETF Open Session at IGF; the discussion will continue via email.


### 11. ICANN Panels


Jari Arkko reported that he has been invited to join the ICANN Strategy Panel on Identifier Technology Innovation. The board expressed concerns about the time commitment required to participate in the panel, and noted that there is a risk that Jari’s participation in the Panel will be perceived as IETF endorsement of the Panel’s work. At least one alternate candidate was discussed. Jari will follow up with Paul Mockapetris (chair of the Panel) and ask whether the Panel’s output will also include dissenting opinions where applicable.


### 12. Other Business


The RSOC asked to increase the RSE’s weekly hours by 6 during October-December 2013 in order to progress several current projects. The IAB agreed to support this request, and the IAB Chair will ask the IAOC to adjust the RSE’s contract and funding accordingly.


