
Minutes of the 2013-03-14 IAB Business Meeting 
Orlando, FL, USA
----------------------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (Outgoing IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens (Outgoing IAB)
* Eliot Lear (Incoming IAB)
* Xing Li (Incoming IAB)
* Danny McPherson (Outgoing IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan (Incoming IAB)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (Incoming IETF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (Outgoing IETF Chair, Incoming IAB Chair)
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Jon Peterson (Outgoing IAB)


### GUESTS (present for item 5 only)


* Börje Ohlman
* Dave Oran


### 1. RFC Format Approval Discussion


The IAB approved draft-iab-rfcformatreq for publication as an Informational RFC. The Chair will send a Request to Publish notice to the RFC Editor.


### 2. Recognition


Bernard Aboba formally thanked outgoing IAB Members David Kessens, Danny McPherson and Jon Peterson for their service.


### 3. ICANN BoD Appointment – Executive Session


Marc Blanchet recused himself from the discussion. The board discussed nominations for the ICANN Board of Directors Liaison appointment in an Executive Session.


Eliot Lear, Andrew Sullivan and Hannes Tschofenig agreed to set up interviews with the candidates and report back to the board.


### 4. ISOC BoT Appointment – Executive Session


Eliot Lear and Andrew Sullivan recused themselves from the discussion. The board discussed the nominees for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment in an Executive Session.


### 5. IRTF WG Review: Information-Centric Networking Research Group (ICNRG)


Börje Ohlman and Dave Oran, chairs of the Information-Centric Networking Research Group (ICNRG) [[http://irtf.org/icnrg](http://irtf.org/icnrg "ICNRG")] gave a brief overview of the Research Group’s activities.


The main objective of the research group is to advance the state of ICN research and provide a forum for the exchange of ideas and analysis related to ICN research. The group is currently working on three documents:


* a survey about possible directions for the evolution of ICN solutions
* a document outlining research challenges with problems in the network and how ICN can help, and the impact on IETF work
* a baseline scenarios document comparing different approaches to ICN  

architecture.


The slides presented are available on in ICNRG wiki [<http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/irtf/trac/wiki/icnrg>]:


* “​[ICNRG IAB Review slides – Börje Ohlman](http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/irtf/trac/attachment/wiki/icnrg/ICNRG-IAB-Review-IETF86-Orlando.pdf "ICNRG IAB Review Slides")” (PDF)
* “​[ICN for Content Distribution – IAB Review at IETF86 – Dave Oran](http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/irtf/trac/attachment/wiki/icnrg/ICN%20for%20Content%20Distribution%20-%20IAB%20Review%20at%20IETF86.pdf "ICN For Content Distribution")” (PDF)


The board discussed whether things can be improved with information-centric networking. Dave Oran noted that things look promising in the naming/routing areas, but there are challenges in naming schemes for objects that are not static. ICNs are unlikely to help with integrity validation for cached objects on web pages. It was noted that Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) are one possible place where ICN could be adopted, but the architecture may not work well with the business model; in order to succeed the middle-man would likely need to be removed. The group concluded that it is too soon to tell if ICN will be able to help with streaming and mobility, and that more research is needed.


