
Minutes of the 2013-04-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


##### REGRETS


* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Eliot Lear asked to add an agenda item on a possible workshop relating to protocol deployment (see item 8, below).


Dave Thaler asked to add an agenda item on the request for an Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) shepherd (see item 9, below).


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the IETF 86 Technical Plenary were approved.


The minutes of the 27 March 2013 business meeting were approved pending edits to the text to be made by Cindy Morgan.


The minutes of the 3 April 2013 business meeting were approved pending edits to the text to be made by Cindy Morgan.


### 2. Open IAB Positions


The board agreed to wait until the NomCom Chair for 2013-2014 is announced before appointing the IAB Liaison to the NomCom for 2013-2014, but noted that once the new chair is announced, the IAB Liaison should be appointed in a timely manner.


Andrew Sullivan agreed to take over as IAB Lead for the Internationalization Program, with the transition to happen at the 2013 IAB Retreat.


### 3. Retreat Planning


Cindy Morgan reminded board members who will be leading discussions at the 2013 Retreat to fill in the abstracts and desired outcomes for their discussion topics on the internal wiki page. Dave Thaler suggested re-ordering parts of the agenda on Thursday and Friday so that the two agenda slots devoted to whether changes are needed to the IAB Programs would bookend the discussions related to actual Program topics.


### 4. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


The board discussed Network Coding as a potential topic for the IETF 87 Technical Plenary. Lars Eggert agreed to forward the materials from the proposed Network Coding Research Group meeting held at IETF 86 in Orlando for further discussion.


### 5. RSOC Membership Review


The board agreed to issue a public call for nominations for the RFC Series Oversight Committee and publish the list of candidates in order to collect community feedback. Joel Halpern agreed to draft text for the call for nominations.


### 6. Open IAB Stream Errata


There are currently two open IAB-stream errata reported. Dave Thaler proposed responses to those errata on the mailing list; Bernard Aboba agreed to review the proposed responses.


### 7. Document Status Update


#### 7.1. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications-06


Dave Thaler reported that an updated version of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications is expected soon.


#### 7.2. draft-iab-cc-workshop-report-01


Bernard Aboba reported that draft-iab-cc-workshop-report still needs additional text before it will be ready for IAB Last Call.


#### 7.3. draft-iab-filtering-considerations-02


Alissa Cooper reported that Richard Barnes is currently working on draft-iab-filtering-considerations and that the draft will be discussed further at the IAB Retreat.


#### 7.4. draft-iab-privacy-considerations-07


Alissa Cooper reported that an updated version of draft-iab-privacy-considerations that addresses issues raised during the IETF-wide Call for Comments is nearly ready for posting, and asked the board to review the draft.


#### 7.5. draft-iab-rfc4441rev-03


Spencer Dawkins reported that the team working on draft-iab-rfc4441rev continues to meet via conference call. The current plan is to include some descriptive text as well as links to other documents for the most up-to-date information. Spencer noted that the changes were extensive enough that the IAB will likely want to do another IAB Last Call on the document.


#### 7.6. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture-02


The board agreed that draft-iab-smart-object-architecture is ready for IAB Last Call. The IAB Chair will send an IAB Last Call on draft-iab-smart-object-architecture.


### 8. Protocol Deployment Workshop Proposal


Eliot Lear proposed a workshop around IETF 88 in Vancouver to discuss technology adoption from an economics perspective. He asked board members who are interested in working with him to develop this proposal to contact him offline.


### 9. Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) Shepherd


The IAB received a request to shepherd work on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) in the IETF. Mary Barnes agreed to draft a response to the requester.


