
Minutes of the 2013-07-03 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS (present through item 2 only)


* Patrick Curry
* Kathleen Moriarty
* Matthias Wählisch


##### REGRETS


* Marc Blanchet
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An agenda item on the IAB/ISOC relationship was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 June 2013, 19 June 2013, and 26 June 2013 business meetings were approved.


### 2. Tech Chat: Security Incident Information Sharing (SIIS) Workshop


Hannes Tschofenig presented a brief overview of the workshop on Security Incident Information Sharing [[http://siis.realmv6.org/](http://siis.realmv6.org/ "SIIS")] scheduled for 26 July 2013 in Berlin. The workshop is hosted by Freie Universität Berlin, and is free to attend for registered participants [see [http://siis.eventbrite.com](http://siis.eventbrite.com "Register") to register].


The workshop was arranged because proposed regulation in the European Commission on cybersecurity and data protection both have components of security incident information sharing and breach notification in their proposals. A new group, “Network and Information Security Platform,” was formed. The platform will have three working groups, one of which is about information exchange. The Information Exchange WG will identify best practices for incident reporting, incident coordination, and exchange of information on threats and vulnerabilities affecting networks and information systems. The work relates to ongoing IETF work in the MILE WG and the proposed SACM WG.


The goals of the workshop are:


* Get input from the European security community.
* Learn about IETF technology and its usage (awareness raising about IETF).
* Socialize and increase our network.
* Additional time for discussions about upcoming IETF work.
* Ideally: Get a better understanding of the bigger picture on where this incident information sharing work is going.


Eliot Lear asked if the platform would create a treaty or MOU amongst the participants related to the sharing of threat information. Matthias Wählisch replied that such agreements are already a part of the supply chain. Kathleen Moriarty noted that the platform will be pointing to existing standards wherever possible, not maintaining the contractual arrangements for sharing the threat information.


### 3. RIPE Roundtable


Eliot Lear reported that Paul Rendek, Director of External Relations for the RIPE NCC, expressed interest in inviting the IETF to give an overview of the IETF to regulators during the next RIPE Roundtable [[http://www.ripe.net/ripe/meetings/roundtable](http://www.ripe.net/ripe/meetings/roundtable "RIPE Roundtable")]. The board agreed that it would be beneficial to give such a presentation to RIPE, and acknowledged that it should reach out to other RIRs as well. Eliot will work with ISOC to reach out to the other RIRs. Jari Arkko, Ross Callon, and Russ Housley will work with Eliot on the presentation for the RIPE Roundtable.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 87


Russ Housley briefly reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 87.


### 5. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


Bernard Aboba and Mary Barnes have identified two potential speakers to cover the “Lessons Learned” and “Futures” portions of the technical topic on Opus during the IETF 87 Technical Plenary. Mary will issue invitations to the potential speakers.


Eliot Lear asked that the ITAT Workshop [[http://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/itat/](https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/itat/ "ITAT Workshop")] be highlighted in the IAB Chair report during the Plenary.


### 6. Dotless Domains


The board discussed the draft IAB Statement on Dotless Domains. Andrew Sullivan and Dave Thaler will update the text based on the discussion, and send it out to the board for review and e-vote.


### 7. IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee


Mary Barnes reported that three nominations have been submitted for the IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN NomCom position. Mary is confirming with the nominees whether those nominations have been accepted.


### 8. ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests


Bernard Aboba asked whether there was IAB interest in drafting a response to the ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests. The deadline to submit comments is 16 July 2013, and the reply comment deadline is 7 August 2013. Russ Housley will reach out to the Number Research Organization (NRO) to see if there is interest in coordinating on this response.


### 9. IAB/ISOC Relationship


Eliot Lear asked the board to review and comment on his email regarding the IAB/ISOC relationship, and requested that this topic be put on the agenda for the IAB business meeting on 10 July 2013.


