
Minutes of the 2013-07-17 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that there would not be an IAB business meeting on 24 July 2013.


An item on a proposed Category A Liaison relationship with ISO/TC204 was added to the agenda as item 8.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 July 2013 Tech Chat & Business Meeting and the 10 July 2013 Business Meeting remain under review.


### 2. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


Mary Barnes reported that all speakers have been confirmed for the IETF 87 Technical Plenary. The Meetecho team will test the audio quality in the room prior to the plenary for the remote participation aspect.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 87


Russ Housley asked Program Leads if all Program meetings at IETF 87 have been scheduled; Dave Thaler replied that the IP Evolution Program is still settling on a time, but that the meeting will likely conflict with either the Emergency Service Program or the Liaison Oversight Program. Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to send any food and A/V requirements to her as soon as possible.


The board agreed upon the following BOF coverage at IETF 87:


* 6lo: Dave Thaler
* 6tcsh: Marc Blanchet
* aqm: Bernard Aboba, Alissa Cooper
* dice: Andrew Sullivan
* dmarc: Eliot Lear, Andrew Sullivan (Russ Housley is BOF Chair)
* dnssdext: Marc Blanchet, Eliot Lear, Andrew Sullivan, Dave Thaler
* iprbis: Joel Halpern, Russ Housley, Eliot Lear
* nsc: Ross Callon
* posh: Eliot Lear, Andrew Sullivan
* status: Ross Callon, Joel Halpern
* stir: Bernard Aboba (Russ Housley is BOF Chair)
* tcmtf: Xing Li


Barry Leiba agreed to follow up with the IESG about any formal requests for BOF Shepherds.


### 4. IAB Stream Errata


The IAB agreed to verify Errata 3603 on RFC 6756 [<http://www.rfc-editor.org/errata_search.php?eid=3603>]. Russ Housley will verify the erratum with the RFC Editor.


### 5. IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee


The Call for Volunteers for the IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee closes on 19 July 2013. Eliot Lear reported that all of the current candidates have been sent the questionnaire and that he is working to set up interview during IETF 87.


### 6. ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests


The board approved the IAB Response to the ICANN Consultation on the Source of Policies & User Instructions for Internet Number Resource Requests via email prior to this meeting. Russ Housley sent the response to ICANN on behalf of the IAB. The response has also been posted on the IAB website [[http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2013-2/iab-response-to-iana-policies-user-instructions-25jun13/](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2013-2/iab-response-to-iana-policies-user-instructions-25jun13/)].


### 7. IANA Evolution Program Membership


The IAB agreed to add Jonne Soininen to the IANA Evolution Program.


### 8. Request from ISO/TC204 to establish a Category A Liaison with IETF


The IAB received a request from ISO/TC204 to establish a Category A(i.e., peer) Liaison with IETF. Dave Thaler reminded the board that the IAB initially suggested such a liaison relationship in 2010. The current IAB agreed that such a liaison relationship would still be beneficial. Joel Halpern and Barry Leiba agreed to consult the IESG to ensure that they are still in agreement before the IAB moves forward with the liaison relationship.


### 9. Executive Session: RFC 6852 appeal


The board discussed the RFC 6852 appeal in an Executive Session. The IAB approved the response to the Appeal Regarding RFC 6852 from JFC Morfin.


