
Minutes of the 2013-10-23 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


##### GUESTS


* Jonne Soininen


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that this is the last teleconference before IETF 88.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 October 2013 tech chat and business meeting were conditionally approved. If there are no changes or objections by Friday, 25 October 2013, the minutes will be posted as final on the IAB website.


### 2. ICANN Update


#### 2.1. IGOVUPDATE


The board discussed the draft agenda for the IGOVUPDATE BOF at IETF 88. The board agreed to ask Fadi Chehade to present the proposed I\* coalition to address Internet governance issues, noting that time will need to be allowed for discussion from the IETF community. Marc Blanchet and Andrew Sullivan will work offline to finalize the agenda.


#### 2.2. Internet Governance Forum (IGF) 2013


Jari Arkko reported that leaders from many I\* organizations are discussing forming a coalition to address Internet governance issues that do not have another home with a multistakeholder organization. The plans for the coalition are not firm yet, but the upcoming summit on Internet governance planned for Brazil in April 2014 is a likely topic of further discussion. Jari noted that the leaders of some I\* organizations have suggested a joint statement endorsing the coalition.


#### 2.3. Changes to ICANN Technical Liaison Group


Jonne Soininen reported that the ICANN Technical Liaison Group (TLG) is currently undergoing reorganization. The IETF has been asked to designate two individual technical experts who are familiar with the technical standards issues that are relevant to ICANN’s activities. Steve Crocker, Chair of the ICANN Board of Directors, sent an email to the IAB Chair asking to execute a Memorandum of Understanding regarding the appointment of those experts. The board agreed that Russ would reply to the email to start working out the details of the MOU.


#### 2.4. RSSAC update


Marc Blanchet reported that RSSAC has only met once since he has taken over as liaison. There are no actions for the IAB at this point, as the documents are currently in the RSSAC’s hands.


### 3. IETF 88 Technical Plenary


Hannes Tschofenig reported that plans for the IETF 88 Technical Plenary are proceeding well. Cindy Morgan asked Hannes to tell the panelists that the transcription service would greatly appreciate having their slides in advance of the plenary.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 88


Russ Housley briefly reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 88, noting that Internet governance and pervasive monitoring topics were likely to be discussed during the business meetings.


### 5. BOF Coverage at IETF 88


Barry Leiba reported that GEONET is the only BOF at IETF 88 requesting an IAB Shepherd.


The IAB currently plans to cover BOFs at IETF 88 as follows:


* IGOVUPDATE: Marc Blanchet and Andrew Sullivan are chairing.
* GEONET: Xing Li is covering. Eliot Lear is BOF shepherd.
* PERPASS: Marc Blanchet, Alissa Cooper, and Dave Thaler are covering.
* RFCFORM: Marc Blanchet and Dave Thaler are covering.
* SFC: Ross Callon and Erik Nordmark are covering.


### 6. Security Program


The IAB briefly discussed the text for the Security Program description. Hannes Tschofenig will update the text based on the discussion and send it back out the IAB.


### 7. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Dave Thaler asked the board to review the current revision of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications in hopes that the document can be approved and sent to the RFC Editor before the Technical Plenary in Vancouver.


### 8. draft-iab-rfc4441rev


Bernard Aboba reported that he has taken over as editor of draft-iab-rfc4441rev, and asked the board to review the current revision of the document.


### 9. draft-iab-cc-workshop-report


Hannes Tschofenig and Bernard Aboba will work offline to update draft-iab-cc-workshop-report to include more information about the workshop’s discussion of possible solutions.


### 10. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


Dave Thaler suggested adding more information on IPv6 to draft-iab-smart-object-architecture, and asked that the IP Evolution Program discuss the document during IETF 88.


### 11. IAB Statement on NIST SP 800-90 A


The board approved the IAB comments to the US National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) in the matter of the NIST Special Publication 800-90A (Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators) review proceeding. Russ Housley will send the comments to NIST on behalf of the IAB, and Cindy Morgan will post the statement on the IAB website.


### 12. Resource PKI


Russ Housley reported that with the recent Snowden revelations, the RIRs are saying that they are uncomfortable with the planned global trust anchor model for the Resource Public Key Infrastructure. After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed that Russ would invite the RIR CEOs to attend the Tuesday IAB breakfast meeting in Vancouver to discuss the issue further.


