
Minutes of the 2013-04-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Hannes Tschofenig suggested “Emergency Services: Interacting with Regulators” as the topic for the 5 June 2013 IAB tech chat. The board agreed that this would be a good topic; Hannes will work with Bernard Aboba to invite Gary Machado (EENA) and Trey Forgety (NENA) to speak at the June tech chat.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed. Cindy Morgan will post the IAB response to the RSSAC restructuring document in the Correspondence section of the IAB website.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 March 2013 and 14 March 2013 business meetings were approved.


Mary Barnes will start an e-vote to approve the minutes of the IETF 86 Technical Plenary.


The minutes of the 27 March 2013 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. RFC 2870bis


The board discussed the current status of RFC 2870bis in relation to the RSSAC’s planned updates to the operational procedures for root servers, noting the the two documents should progress in parallel. Marc Blanchet agreed to draft a message to the RSSAC about the current status of RFC 2870bis for the IAB to review.


### 3. Open IAB Positions


The board briefly discussed open IAB positions.


The IAB Lead for the IP Evolution Program will be selected after the board discusses possible changes to the Program’s structure at the 2013 IAB Retreat.


Dave Thaler indicated that he would like to step down as IAB Lead of the Internationalization Program (but still remain an active member) in order to focus on some IP Evolution items this year, and that Andrew Sullivan is interested in taking his place as I18N Program Lead.


The IAB Liaison to the NomCom for 2013-2014 has yet to be selected; it was noted that this position involves a significant time commitment and whoever volunteers will likely need to get approval from their management first.


Further discussion of the topic was deferred to the mailing list and the next IAB Business Meeting on 10 April 2013.


#### 4. Retreat Planning


The board reviewed an initial draft of the 2013 Retreat agenda. Based  

on the feedback received, Russ Housley will post an updated draft of  

the agenda to the internal wiki. Board members will fill in abstracts  

and desired outcomes for each agenda topic that they are scheduled to  

lead.


### 5. Response to Liaison Manager Appointment Process


The board discussed concerns raised by several members of the community on the IETF Discussion list about whether there should have been an open call for a new IETF Liaison Manager to the ITU-T. The discussion will continue in email.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Board of Directors Liaison Appointment


The board appointed the Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors in an Executive Session. Russ Housley will confirm the appointee’s acceptance of the position and follow up with the other candidates, encouraging them to volunteer for other roles the IAB will be filling in the future.


