
Minutes of the 2013-01-09 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Danny McPherson
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Jesse Sowell


#### REGRETS


* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)


### 2. Tech Chat: Empirical Studies of Bottom-up Internet Governance


Jesse Sowell led the board in a discussion on bottom-up organizational modes of internet governance at the intersection of Internet operations and security, focusing on data from network operator groups (NOGs) and RIRs, Internet eXchange Points (IXPs), and anti-abuse organizations such as the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (MAAWG).


It was noted that in many cases, the governance models consist of actors pushing private interests while producing work with public benefits. Outstanding questions include:


* Where does the authority of these organizations come from, and what is the scope?
* Does this authority undermine or complement state-based authority, despite being independent of it?


### 3. Minutes


The minutes of the 12 December 2012 business meeting were approved.  The minutes of the 19 December 2012 business meeting remain under review.


### 4. Upcoming Meeting Schedule


The IAB agreed upon the following teleconference schedule:


* January 16, 2013: Business Meeting
* January 30, 2013: Business Meeting
* February 6, 2013: Tech Chat/Business Meeting
* February 13, 2013: Business Meeting
* February 27, 2013: Business Meeting


### 5. ICANN Board of Trustees Job Description


The job description for the IETF Liaison to ICANN Board of Directors position remains under review. Jari Arkko agreed to invite Thomas Narten, the current liaison, to give a briefing on the current state of ICANN at the IAB tech chat on 6 February 2013.


### 6. Next steps on draft-iab-identifier-comparison


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-identifier-comparison out for IETF-wide Call for Comment. Bernard Aboba will send the Call for Comment message to the IETF-Announce list.


### 7. Next steps on draft-dawkins-iab-rfc4441rev


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-dawkins-iab-rfc4441rev as an IAB-stream document.


### 8. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


