
Minutes of the 2013-10-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Andrew Sullivan


#### 1.2. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 18 September 2013 tech chat and business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 25 September 2013 business meeting remain under review.


Dave Thaler suggested changing the timing of the liaison reports to the IAB in order to avoid having meeting minutes that are embargoed pending the inclusion of a written report. Cindy Morgan will follow up via email with a proposal to change the timing of liaison reports, and the board will discuss this topic at the next IAB business meeting.


### 2. IETF 88 Technical Plenary


Hannes Tschofenig reported that plans for the IETF 88 Technical Plenary on Internet Hardening are going well so far. Hannes suggested inviting Brian Carpenter to the IAB’s 9 October 2013 tech chat on the same topic in order to discuss content for the plenary. The board concurred; Hannes will invite Brian to the meeting.


Bernard Aboba reported that plans for remote participation during the plenary are still being discussed in the IAOC.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 88


Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads to add their meetings to the IAB agenda for IETF 88 on the internal wiki. She also reminded Program Leads to send her any requests for meetings that will require A/V or food and beverage service.


Cindy Morgan requested that agenda items for the IAB business meetings at IETF 88 be sent to the mailing list.


### 4. BOF Coverage at IETF 88


The board briefly discussed BOF coverage at IETF 88. Dave Thaler requested that the sessions that will run in parallel with the BOFs be listed in order to see the conflicts. Cindy Morgan will add this information to the internal wiki once the preliminary agenda for IETF 88 is published, after which time the board will revisit this topic.


Barry Leiba will ask the IESG whether there are any BOFs the IAB should pay special attention to beyond normal IAB BOF coverage.


### 5. Security Program


Hannes Tschofenig reported that the description of the IAB Security Program is currently being edited. Eliot Lear noted that the focus should be on proactive IAB action, rather than reactive. Hannes will send the updated text out to the IAB for review.


### 6. IAB Statement on NIST SP 800-90 A


Bernard Aboba asked the board to review the draft IAB statement on NIST SP 800-90 A that was posted to the mailing list.


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


