
Minutes of the 2013-08-01 IAB Business Meeting
Berlin, Germany
--------------------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


### GUESTS


* David Meyer


### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)


### 1. IRTF Review: Software-Defined Networking Research Group (SDNRG)


David Meyer, co-chair of the Software-Defined Networking Research Group (SDNRG) [[http://irtf.org/sdnrg](http://irtf.org/sdnrg "SDNRG")], gave a brief overview of the Research Group’s activities. He noted that SDN is wide in scope and difficult to define. SDN is being worked on in many groups, including ETSI, ONF, and IETF, and there are terminology clashes that confuse things. The RG’s high-level goal is to frame the research agenda for the SDN community, while ensuring bidirectional information flow between the research and engineering communities.


David Meyer noted that one challenge in attracting new work into the SDNRG is that IRTF RFCs are not considered peer-reviewed papers, which makes academics less likely to participate. Lars Eggert suggested that the RG could have a journal, and that they could hold research workshops to attract students.


### 2. Decision on RIPE Government Roundtable


The IAB agreed to participate in the RIPE Government Roundtable in September. Eliot Lear will take the lead.


### 3. Working with ISOC


The board revisited the list of goals with mutual interest to the IETF, IAB, and ISOC. Jari Arkko, Leslie Daigle, and Russ Housley will work together to identify leads for each goal and clarify the commitments for each group.


### 4. NIS Platform


The IAB agreed to suggest Tobias Gondrom (co-chair of the IETF Web Security working group), Brian Trammell (co-chair of the IETF Managed Incident Lightweight Exchange (MILE) working group), and Stephen Farrell (Security Area Director) as participants in the Network and Information Security (NIS) Platform.


