
Minutes of the 2013-11-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, action items, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUEST


* Stephen Farrell (through item 2 only)


##### REGRETS


* Bernard Aboba
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that there will not be a conference call on 4 December 2013. The next IAB Business Meeting will be on 11 December 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 7 November 2013 Business Meeting
* 13 November 2013 Business Meeting
* 20 November 2013 Business Meeting


Dave Thaler agreed to provide corrections to the transcript of the IETF 88 Technical Plenary. He will send email to the IAB once this is done, asking the IAB to review one last time. If there are no objections, the transcript will be posted to the IETF 88 Proceedings next week.


### 2. Security Workshop


The IAB approved the Call for Papers for the joint IAB/W3C Security Workshop pending final edits to be provided by Stephen Farrell. Russ Housley will send the Call for Papers to the IETF Community on behalf of the IAB during the week of 2 December 2013.


### 3. IAB Statement on draft-farrell-perpass-attack


The IAB approved the IAB Statement on draft-farrell-perpass-attack pending edits to be provided by Eliot Lear. Russ Housley will send the statement to the IETF Community, and Cindy Morgan will post it on the IAB website.


### 4. Update from ICANN 48


Russ Housley and Jari Arkko updated the IAB about ICANN 48. The I\* CEOs discussed the 3×3 model proposed in draft-kolkman-iana-framework:



```
  +----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
  |     ROLES      |   PROTOCOLS   |    NUMBERS    |     NAMES     |
  +----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
  |     POLICY     | IETF          | RIRs          | ICANN         |
  |                | Community     | Community     | Community     | 
  +----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
  |   OVERSIGHT    | IAB           | NRO           | ICANN         |
  |                |               |               |               |
  +----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
  | IMPLEMENTATION | IANA          | IANA          | IANA          |
  |                |               |               |               |
  +----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
```

The IAB discussed other points of view on this document, as well as the nature of delegations for various roles and its own authority in the matter.


The next steps are for the three branches to document what is under their control. Russ Housley said that he expects this will result in each community publishing a document stating how they align with the model. The goal is to have this completed by the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance planned for Brazil in April 2014. Further actions will be discussed in the IAB’s IANA Evolution Program.


Jari Arkko reported that there was further discussion of the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance. The government of Brazil has asked 1net [[http://1net.org/](http://1net.org/ "/1net")] to provide people for the program committees, which is a challenge as 1net has no formal structure; it is likely that the I\* CEOs will provide names instead.


### 5. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Marc Blanchet formally recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment was discussed in an Executive Session.


