
Minutes of the 2013-07-28 IAB Business Meeting
Berlin, Germany
--------------------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


### GUESTS


* The IESG (item 1 only)
* Leslie Daigle
* Olaf Kolkman
* Scott Mansfield
* Sally Wentworth


### 1. Plenipot


The board discussed the 2014 ITU Plenipotentiary Conference [<http://www.itu.int/en/plenipotentiary/Pages/default.aspx>] and ways to get input from the community. Ross Callon, Joel Halpern, Scott Mansfield, and Sally Wentworth agreed to put together a list of relevant topics for a potential mailing list.


### 2. IAB/ISOC Relationship


The board discussed the IAB’s relationship with ISOC, and looked at a list of key desired outcomes of mutual interest to the IAB/IETF and ISOC. Russ Housley asked the board to review the list and see if there are things missing. Dave Thaler noted that the tactics used to achieve these goals should have clear owners between the IAB, IETF and ISOC.


### 3. Update on the state of the Multi Stake Holder Platform on ICT standardization


Olaf Kolkman updated the IAB on the current status of the European Multi-Stakeholders Platform (MSP) on ICT Standardisation [[http://ec.europa.eu/transparency/regexpert/index.cfm?do=groupDetail.groupDetail&groupID=2758](http://ec.europa.eu/transparency/regexpert/index.cfm?do=groupDetail.groupDetail&groupID=2758 "MSP")].


Olaf Kolkman noted that the MSP is looking at standards to whitelist for procurement purposes. There is confusion about the IETF “Proposed Standard” versus “Internet Standard.” It was noted that while the Internet runs on Proposed Standards, the word “Proposed” makes it sounds like the standards are not finished. In practice, it is often difficult to promote standards from “Proposed” status because the people involved are already working on something else. Olaf asked the board to consider solutions to this problem.


