
Minutes of the 2013-02-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* David Kessens
* Xing Li (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Eliot Lear (incoming IAB)
* Danny McPherson
* Andrew Sullivan (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An agenda item on the 2013 IAB Retreat was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 16 January 2013 and 30 January 2013 business meetings were approved.


### 2. Upcoming IAB Conference Calls


The board agreed that the next IAB Business Meeting will be on Wednesday, 27 February 2013 at 0930 PST.


Bernard Aboba asked the board to fill out the Doodle poll on dates and times for IAB conference calls after IETF 86. Alissa Cooper suggested rotating the time for the call in order to better accommodate the range of time zones of call participants. The board will discuss this further pending the results of the Doodle poll.


### 3. 2013 IAB Retreat


The board discussed initial plans for the 2013 IAB Retreat. The board agreed that it would be helpful to have one day of the retreat overlap with the IESG Retreat. Bernard Aboba and Jari Arkko will coordinate offline and send a Doodle poll with potential retreat dates to the IAB and IESG.


### 4. RFC Format Requirements Update


The IETF Call for Comments on draft-iab-rfcformatreq ends on 1 March 2013. Heather Flanagan is working to address comments as they come in, and plans to submit an updated draft before the IETF 86 plenary. The IAB will discuss the document on Sunday at IETF 86.


### 5. Congestion Control Workshop Report


The board agreed to send draft-iab-cc-workshop-report out for IAB Last Call. Bernard Aboba will send the Last Call message.


### 6. IETF 86 Technical Plenary Update


The board briefly discussed creating a public wiki page with additional information on “The End of Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS)” to supplement Henning Schulzrinne’s plenary presentation.


Bernard Aboba reported that he is waiting for Glenn Parsons’ Internet-Draft supplementing his plenary presentation on the IEEE 802 Proposed MAC Address Restructuring to be submitted.


### 7. IETF 86 Agenda


#### 7.1. Program Meetings


Bernard Aboba reminded Program Leads to list their Program meetings on the internal wiki page.


#### 7.2. Business Meeting Topics


Bernard Aboba asked board members to submit agenda items for the face-to-face business meetings at IETF 86.


Spencer Dawkins will lead a discussion on the IAB Role in Evaluating New Work at the joint meeting with the IESG on Sunday, 10 March 2013.


Hannes Tschofenig suggested a topic on certificate transparency and alternative certification based on the upcoming NIST workshop. Hannes will check with the Security Area Directors to see if they are available to discuss that topic with the IAB on Sunday afternoon.


#### 7.3 BOF Coverage


Spencer Dawkins asked the IAB to look at the list of scheduled BOFs at IETF 86 and sign up on the internal wiki for any that they plan to cover or have been requested by an AD to shepherd.


### 8. ICANN Board of Trustees Appointment


The board agreed to send out the Call for nominations for the IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors. Jari Arkko, Marc Blanchet and Russ Housley volunteered to help interview potential candidates at IETF 86.


### 9. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The board agreed to send out the Call for nominations for the IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Marc Blanchet, Ross Callon, Alissa Cooper and Russ Housley volunteered to help interview potential candidates at IETF 86.


### 10. IEEE 802 Coordination Update


Spencer Dawkins reported that plans are proceeding for the face-to-face meeting with the IEEE 802 Executive Committee scheduled for 16 March 2013.


### 11. Horizon 2020 Advisory Groups


The board agreed to move discussion of this topic to the IAB mailing list.


### 12. Document Status


#### 12.1. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


There are currently 4 open tickets on draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications.


#### 12.2. draft-iab-cc-workshop-report


See agenda item 5, above.


#### 12.3. draft-iab-dns-applications


Jon Peterson reported that he is working to resolve the open issues on draft-iab-dns-applications.


#### 12.4. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


Alissa Cooper reported that she hopes to post an update to draft-iab-filtering-considerations before the IETF 86 I-D submission deadline.


#### 12.5. draft-iab-identifier-comparison


The IETF-wide Call for Comment on draft-iab-identifier-comparison ended on 10 February 2013. Dave Thaler reported that he is currently working on an update to resolve the open tickets.


#### 12.6. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


The IETF-wide Call for Comment on draft-iab-privacy-considerations ends on 18 February 2013. Alissa Cooper reported that once the comment period closes, she will update the document and post a new revision before the IETF 86 I-D submission deadline.


#### 12.7. draft-iab-rfc4441rev


Spencer Dawkins reported that he is working to close the open tickets on draft-iab-rfc4441rev so that the draft may be sent to IAB Last Call. The IAB approved initiating IAB Last Call without objection when the tickets are closed.


#### 12.8. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


Hannes Tschofenig reported that he plans to post an update to draft-iab-smart-object-architecture before the IETF 86 I-D submission deadline.


