
Minutes of the 2013-06-12 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Ross Callon
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that the BOF Coordination call with the IESG will be on Thursday, 20 June 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was briefly reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 22 May 2013 business meeting were approved pending the addition of the RSE report. The minutes of the 3 June 2013 tech chat were approved barring any objections from the invited speakers.


The minutes of the 2013 IAB Retreat remain under review.


### 2. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


The board reviewed the outline for the IETF 87 Technical Plenary on Opus and agreed to go ahead with the topic. In order to make the topic more interesting to IETF participants outside the RAI area, it was agreed that additional efforts would be made to recruit speakers to cover the “lessons learned” and “futures” section of the agenda.


### 3. Liaison Oversight


#### 3.1. ISO TC204


Russ Housley noted that there is not currently a liaison manager for ISO TC204. After discussion, the board agreed to defer appointing a liaison manager to ISO TC204 until after the results of the proposed Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) BOF at IETF 87 are known.


#### 3.2. Smart Grid Interoperability Panel


The board agreed to end the liaison relationship with the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel, noting that the organization had restructured into a membership forum called SGIP 2.0. Ross Callon will work with the current liaison manager to see if there is any further notification required to end the relationship.


#### 3.3. CableLabs


Eliot Lear recommended continuing the liaison relationship with CableLabs. Eliot will provide a more detailed report to the board at the next IAB Business Meeting.


#### 3.4. IEEE 802 and RFC 4441rev


Eliot Lear noted that the IETF Call for Comments on draft-iab-rfc4441rev was sent for two weeks instead of four, and that the message did not include a link to TRAC. Russ Housley will send an updated IETF Call for Comment on draft-iab-rfc4441rev, extending the end date of the review period and including the link to TRAC.


#### 3.5. IEEE 802.23


Hannes Tschofenig noted that IEEE 802.23 is still listed on the internal IAB wiki page listing liaison relationships even though the group has closed. Mary Barnes and Eliot Lear will clean up the wiki page to ensure that it is up-to-date.


#### 3.6. ITU-T


Please see [http://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2013/06/ITU-T-2013-05.pdf](https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2013/06/ITU-T-2013-05.pdf) for the ITU-T Liaison Manager report for May 2013.


### 4. draft-thaler-iab-host-firewalls-00


The board agreed to adopt draft-thaler-iab-host-firewalls as an IAB-stream document.


### 5. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications-08


Dave Thaler agreed to upload version -09 of draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications to address comments received from Ed Lewis. Once draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications-09 has been posted, Russ Housley will send an IETF Call for Comments on the document.


### 6. Proposed ECRIT education document


The board discussed whether there is a need for an ECRIT principles document that can be used to educate regulators and other influencers. Hannes Tschofenig reported that there is work currently being done in the Emergency Services Program that could feed into this document. The board agreed that having such a principles document would be a good thing. Hannes Tschofenig will work with the Emergency Services Program to ensure that the current work is split out into separate principles document.


### 7. Requirements for NomCom


The board asks Alissa Cooper (who was not on the call) to update the IAB Requirements for the NomCom and send them back to the board for review.


### 8. ICANN Study on dotless domain names


The board discussed the ICANN announcement of “Security Studies on the Use of Non-Delegated TLDs, and Dotless Names” [[http://www.icann.org/en/news/announcements/announcement-28may13-en.htm](https://www.icann.org/en/news/announcements/announcement-28may13-en.htm)], and whether the IAB should produce a statement. Dave Thaler noted that such a statement would need to be published by around the end of this month in order for it to be read before the ICANN meeting in Durban in mid-July.


The board agreed to write an IAB statement on this topic. Andrew Sullivan will reach out to Thomas Narten, the current IETF liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors (copying the Jonne Soininen, who will replace Thomas as liaison during the July ICANN meeting) and ask for any insights. Andrew Sullivan and Dave Thaler will draft the IAB statement and send it to the board for review before the next IAB Business Meeting.


### 9. IETF Delegate to the ICANN 2014 Nominating Committee


The IAB has been asked to select an IETF delegate for the ICANN 2014 Nominating Committee. Eliot Lear agreed to contact Ole Jacobsen (the delegate for 2012 and 2013) and ask for any input into the job description that should be included in the call for nominations.


### 10. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB appointments to the RSOC were discussed in an Executive Session.


