
Minutes of the 2013-03-12 IAB Business Meeting 
Orlando, FL, USA
----------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll Call


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Eliot Lear (incoming IAB)
* Xing Li (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Jon Peterson
* Lynn St. Amour
* Andrew Sullivan (incoming IAB)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Danny McPherson


### 2. Open IAB Positions


The board assigned open IAB positions as follows:


* IAB Liaison to IESG: Joel Halpern
* IANA Program Lead: Bernard Aboba
* OpenStand Liaison: Eliot Lear
* RSOC secondary: Bernard Aboba


In addition, Ross Callon and Joel Halpern agreed to continue leading the ITU-T Coordination Program. The Program plans to make a recommendation to the IAB for a non-IAB Program Chair by the end of the week. The IP Evolution Program Lead and the NomCom Liaison for 2013-2014 will be selected at the 2013 IAB Retreat.


The board also discussed creating a new liaison relationship with ECMA. Marc Blanchet agreed to investigate and come back to the board with a recommendation at a future date.


The board reassigned the IAB shepherds to liaison managers as follows:


* IAB Shepherd to ICANN Board of Directors Liaison Manager: Andrew Sullivan
* IAB Shepherd to ICANN NomCom Liaison Manager: Eliot Lear
* IAB Shepherd to ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager: Russ Housley
* IAB Shepherd to RSSAC Liaison Manager: Marc Blanchet
* IAB Shepherd to W3C Liaison Manager: Spencer Dawkins


### 3. Upcoming conference call days & times


The board agreed to move the IAB conference calls to 0700 AM Pacific on Wednesdays (first, second and fourth weeks of the month).


Hannes Tschofenig agreed to invite the Security Area Directors to the 3 April 2013 tech chat to discuss certificate transparency.


### 4. draft-iab-dns-applications-07


The IAB approved draft-iab-dns-applications for publication as an Informational RFC. The Chair will send a Request to Publish notice to the RFC Editor.


### 5. IEEE 802/IETF Relationship Document


Spencer Dawkins gave an update on the current status of draft-iab-rfc4441rev. There is an open question about how much of the document should contain descriptive text rather than pointers to existing BCPs.


Bernard Aboba noted that after RFC 4441 was originally published, there was no real way to tell that the IEEE 802 had agreed to the content of the document, as it was not balloted in the IEEE 802 and the only author listed was from the IAB. Spencer Dawkins replied that 4441rev will have authors from both the IAB and the IEEE 802 Executive Committee. Dave Thaler suggested inviting the IEEE 802 to put a one-paragraph Note at the front of the IAB stream document (similar to an IESG Note in an Independent Submission stream document) explaining their participation in the document’s creation.


The document will be discussed further at the meeting with the 802 Executive Committee Leadership on 16 March 2013.


### 6. ISOC Relationship


The board briefly discussed the relationship between the IAB, the IETF and ISOC. It was agreed that each organization needs to understand the scope and mission of the others’ and that communication is vital. This topic will potentially be added to the agenda for the 2013 IAB Retreat.


