
Minutes of the 2013-01-16 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba (IAB Chair)
* Jari Arkko
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Spencer Dawkins
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* David Kessens
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Robert Sparks (IESG Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Eliot Lear
* Dan Romascanu


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Russ Housley (IETF Chair)
* Danny McPherson
* Jon Peterson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that the IETF 86 BOF Coordination Call has been scheduled for 31 January 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 19 December 2012 business meeting and the 9 January 2013 tech chat/business meeting were approved.


### 2. IAB Tools & Processes Program Update


Mary Barnes reported that the IAB Tools & Process Program is looking for tools to facilitate IAB ballots. After discussion, the board agreed to try using Doodle for non-confidential IAB ballots such as document progressions and meeting minute approvals to help get a sense of what features are desired in an IAB balloting tool.


### 3. RFC Format Requirements Update


The IAB Last Call on draft-iab-rfcformatreq ended on 9 January 2013. Heather Flanagan reported that an updated version of the document has been posted to address comments received to date. The board will review the updated version and discuss whether it is ready for IETF-wide Call for Comment at the next IAB teleconference on 30 January 2013.


### 4. IETF 86 Technical Plenary Update


Bernard Aboba will follow up with Russ Housley and the Secretariat about the Technical Plenary length and scheduling.


#### 4.1. End of POTS session


Hannes Tschofenig reported that he has seen a draft of Henning Schulzrinne’s presentation for IETF 86 on the end of POTS. Henning is working to refine the slides based on feedback received to date, and Hannes will distribute the next version to the IAB for review.


#### 4.2. IEEE 802 RAC update


Bernard Aboba reported that he is following up with Glenn Parsons regarding the IEEE 802 RAC presentation at IETF 86.


### 5. WCIT Session at IETF 86


The board agreed to propose a session relating to WCIT at IETF 86. Joel Halpern and Ross Callon will file the request prior to the deadline on 28 January 2013, requesting a one hour session.


### 6. ITU-T Coordination Update


Eliot Lear recommended that the IAB not participate in the ITU-T strategic review committee, due to the asymmetry of its terms of reference, and suggested consulting with peer organizations on ways to move forward. The IAB agreed with this recommendation.


Now that WTSA and WCIT are over, Eliot recommends revising the membership of the itu-t-program mailing list and phasing out the itu-t-liaisons mailing list in order to eliminate confusion and streamline strategic discussions. The IAB agreed with this  

recommendation and made plans to proceed accordingly.


Eliot noted that there is some overlap between the IAB and ISOC charters as they relate to external relationships. Bernard Aboba, Jari Arkko, Ross Callon, Spencer Dawkins, Joel Halpern and Hannes Tschofenig agreed to look at the current collaboration with ISOC and to develop recommendations for the IAB.


### 7. IEEE 802/IETF Coordination Update


Dan Romascanu updated the board about the ongoing coordination with IEEE 802. The team working on the revision to RFC 4441 hopes to have the document ready for IAB last call and IEEE 802 EC review by IETF 86 in Orlando. Several coordinated activities are planned at IETF 86, including a tutorial on the 802.1 architecture, a presentation on MAC address OUI restructuring and virtualization at the Technical Plenary, and a face-to-face meeting between the IESG/IAB and IEEE 802 leadership on Saturday, March 16, 2013.


### 8. IETF 86 Agenda


Mary Barnes asked Program leads to list their meetings on the IETF 86 wiki page, and to let her know about any catering and A/V requirements. Bernard noted that there would be an OpenStand meeting scheduled at some point during the week.


### 9. ICANN Board of Trustees Job Description


The job description for the IETF Liaison to ICANN Board of Directors position remains under review.


### 10. Document Status


#### 10.1. draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples


The Call for Comment on draft-iab-dns-zone-codepoint-pples ends on 21 January 2013.


#### 10.2 draft-iab-identifier-comparison


The Call for Comment on draft-iab-identifier-comparison ends on 10 February 2013.


#### 10.3. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


The board agreed that draft-iab-privacy-considerations is ready for IETF-wide Call for Comment. Bernard Aboba will send the Call for Comment to the IETF-Announce list. The Call for Comment will end on 18 February 2013.


