
Minutes of the 2013-08-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Eliot Lear added agenda items on ECMA and JSON and the upcoming ITAT workshop to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The board approved the following meeting minutes:


* 3 July 2013 Tech Chat & Business Meeting
* 10 July 2013 Business Meeting
* 17 July 2013 Business Meeting
* 28 July 2013 Business Meeting
* 30 July 2013 Business Meeting
* 1 August 2013 Business Meeting


### 2. RSE Contract


The RSOC completed Heather Flanagan’s performance review as RFC Series Editor and recommended to the IAB that the RSE contract be extended for two years. The IAB agreed with this recommendation. Russ Housley will ask the IAOC to proceed with the contract extension.


### 3. draft-rfced-rfcxx00-retired-02


The IAB agreed to send draft-rfced-rfcxx00-retired out to the IETF for community review. Russ Housley will send the Call for Comments message for draft-rfced-rfcxx00-retired.


### 4. IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee


Eliot Lear reported that interviews for the IETF Delegate to the 2014 ICANN Nominating Committee are currently in progress, and that he plans to have a recommendation for the board before the next IAB business meeting on 28 August 2013.


### 5. 2014 Retreat Proposal


Jari Arkko outlined a plan to collocate on the 2014 IAB and IESG Retreats with LACNIC, so that the IETF can do some outreach in Latin America. Jari noted that the plan is contingent upon the location that LACNIC chooses for their May 2014 meeting, and that once more details about that are known, he will send out a poll asking IAB and IESG members whether they are available to do outreach at LACNIC and at local universities during the Retreat week.


### 6. Managing Private Mailing Lists


Mary Barnes briefly outlined the process she has been using to moderate the private IAB mailing lists, namely that outside senders are not white-listed to post messages on private mailing lists. The board agreed to continue using this process.


### 7. ISO/TC204 liaison relationship


Russ Housley replied to the inquiry from ISO/TC204, indicating the IAB’s desire for ISO/TC204 to establish a Category A liaison with the Internet Society on behalf of the IETF. The IAB will provide liaison oversight, as it does for all liaison relationships with the IETF.


### 8. IAB Liaison to 2013-2014 IETF NomCom


Andrew Sullivan will serve as the IAB Liaison to the 2013-2014 IETF NomCom.


### 9. IAB Response to RSSAC Liaison Invitation


The board agreed on the IAB response to the invitation for an RSSAC Liaison. Marc Blanchet will send the response to the RSSAC Chair.


### 10. ECMA and JSON


Eliot Lear reported on the current status of ECMA and the JSON Working Group. ECMA and IETF originally agreed to co-publish the document on JSON. However, ECMA is currently balloting a JSON grammar document. The IETF JSON Working Group had previously decided not to split the JSON document into two documents (the grammar and the technical specifications). Eliot noted that the JSON WG has not had the participation from ECMA that was originally planned. Eliot has a conference call with the secretary-general of ECMA and the chairs of ECMA TC39 scheduled to try to resolve this issue.


### 11. ITAT Workshop


The board agreed to extend the call for papers for the Workshop on Internet Technology Adoption and Transition (ITAT) for an additional two weeks.


### 12. Executive Session: RSSAC Liaison Nomination


The board discussed nominations for the RSSAC Liaison in an executive session.


