
Minutes of the 2013-05-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Bernard Aboba
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Andrew Sullivan


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that the tech chat with EENA and NENA about Interaction with Regulators is scheduled for Monday, 3 June 2013.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 24 April 2013 business meeting and the 1 May 2013 tech chat were approved.


### 2. Liaison updates (Liaisons) – 5 mins


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
27 May 2013

Topics:

I. Best Current Operational Practices
II. ITU WTPF
III. IGF Open Consultations and MAG Meeting
IV. OECD and IPv6

I. Best Current Operational Practices
We continue to present the idea of leveraging various regional efforts in
developing "best current operational practices" (BCOPs) into a global
repository, where applicable. Recent presentations of the idea for public
feedback have included: INET Denver, North American IPv6 Summit, RIPE
regional meeting in Macedonia as well as the RIPE meeting in Dublin, the
ARIN Public Policy Meeting, the Caribbean Network Operator Group meeting.
Near future outings include the Eurasian Network Operator Group (ENOG) in
St Petersburg. Feedback at each event so far has been in support of
creating this repository.

II. ITU WTPF
The outcome of this meeting was positive and ISOC's participation was
well-received by many countries. Specific items included: Lynn St.
Amour's remarks at the Strategic Dialogue, op-ed in Computer World, ISOC
contribution to WTPF, ISOC opening statement to the WTPF (delivered by
Lynn St. Amour), ISOC-hosted dinner for I* plus key Member States. ISOC
provided the Vice Chair of Working Group 1, held several bilateral
meetings with delegations from key countries, and made several
interventions during the meeting.

III. IGF Open Consultations and MAG Meeting
Markus Kummer chaired the IGF Open Consultations and the MAG meeting in
Geneva on 21-23 May. The meeting went well and there was a general desire
to move forward. Proposed theme for the 2013 is "Building Bridges
- Enhancing Multistakeholder Collaboration for Growth and Sustainable
Development". However, the Chinese MAG member did not join the general
consensus and the report will go forward to the UN in New York stating
that there was one dissenting opinion.

IV. OECD and IPv6
ISOC is participating in a series of meetings of a Volunteer Group set up
to draft the OECD ICCP statement and a possible Council recommendation on
the economic benefits of IPv6 deployment. The group will meet
physically in conjunction with the next WPIE meeting (12-13 June), in
Paris.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Barry Leiba–



```
New working groups:
IMAP Condstore & QResync (qresync)
[chairs are Dave Cridland and Eliot Lear]

Rechartered:
Path Computation Element (pce)
Forwarding and Control Element Separation (forces)
JSON Object Signing and Encryption (jose) [last DISCUSS just cleared]

Rechartering:
IP Performance Metrics (ippm) [on 5/30 telechat for review]
Network Configuration (netconf) [on 5/30 telechat for review]
Multiprotocol Label Switching (mpls) [informal review]

Active chartering:
SIP-TO-XMPP (stox) [on 5/30 telechat for review]
JavaScript Object Notation (json) [on 5/30 telechat for approval]

Working on charters:
Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (dmarc)
Aggregated Service Discovery (aggsrv)

Personnel changes:
Sara Banks is a new BMWG chair
Lorenzo Vicisano is stepping down as RMT chair; RMT is finishing, so
he will not be replaced
Allison Mankin has been added as a TSV technical advisor to HTTPBIS
DJ (Damascene Joachimpillai) is a new FORCES chair, and Joel Halpern
is a new technical advisor

Other items:
The Applications Area Directors are working on resolving an issue
raised by Tobias Conradi with respect to the timezone mailing list.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


1. RSE Report



```
Update on Active Projects
* RFC Format
Work regarding the SoW to work on the specification for the tools that
will allow for an expansion of xml2rfc and the creation of the proposed
formats (PDF, HTML, TXT, and EPUB) as well as other processing features
is underway. The goal is to have this out for community comment well
before the Berlin meeting.

* RFC Style Guide
A revised I-D of the new Style Guide will be posted after some final
review during the RFC Editor face to face meeting in June.

* Other news
The RPC and Publisher Selection Committee 2013 (Bob Hinden, Russ
Housley, John Klensin, Nevil Brownlee, and Heather Flanagan (chair)) has
been reviewing the RPC and Publisher SoWs. A report from the committee
is due to the IAOC by the end of June 2013.

2. RFC Production Center
* Face to face meeting and training
The RPC will be gathering in Fremont the week of June 17 for planning
purposes. Topics include review of the new xml2rfc v2, Style Guide
updates, metrics, and project planning through the end of 2013.

See attached graph for current SLA information.

May Stats for the RFC Editor
Submissions: 20
Publications: 21
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report–


* [2013-to-date-SLA](/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2013/06/2013-to-date-SLA.pdf)


#### 2.4. IRTF Chair


Lars Eggert reported that the Scalable Adaptive Multicast Research Group (SAMRG) is working on a couple of drafts to be posted before the IETF 87 submission deadline.


### 3. RSSAC Update


In March, the IAB provided feedback on the RSSAC’s proposed restructuring document [see [http://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2013-2/iab-response-to-rssac-restructure-document-28-march-2013/](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2013-2/iab-response-to-rssac-restructure-document-28-march-2013/)]. Marc Blanchet reported that the restructuring is continuing as originally planned by RSSAC.


The board discussed the progress on RFC 2870bis. Marc Blanchet is writing a new draft with a root-server operator as co-author. The subject will be the protocol requirements for root servers, while the operational side is handled by an RSSAC document.


### 4. Liaison Oversight


The board reviewed the list of IAB Liaison Shepherds, and reassigned them accordingly:


* 3GPP2: Marc Blanchet
* 3GPP: Hannes Tschofenig
* Broadband Forum: Ross Callon
* CableLabs: Eliot Lear
* ICANN Board: Andrew Sullivan
* ICANN NomCom: Eliot Lear
* ICANN RSSAC: Marc Blanchet
* IEEE-SA: Bernard Aboba
* IEEE 802.1: Bernard Aboba
* IEEE 802.23: Hannes Tschofenig
* ISO TC46: Russ Housley
* ISO TC204: Russ Housley
* ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2: Dave Thaler, Russ Housley
* ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6: Russ Housley
* ISO/IEC JTC1 SC29 : Russ Housley
* ITU-T: Ross Callon
* ITU-T, MPLS: Ross Callon
* ITU-T, SG15: Ross Callon
* Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (MAAWG): Hannes Tschofenig
* Smart Grid Interoperability Panel: Ross Callon
* Unicode: Dave Thaler
* W3C: Alissa Cooper


Eliot Lear will check with Ralph Droms (liaison manager) on the current status of the CableLabs liaison relationship. Ross Callon will check with Fred Baker (liaison manager) on the current status of the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel liaison relationship.


Eliot Lear reported that he would meet with all of the liaison shepherds about scheduling reports back to the full IAB.


The board approved adding Scott Mansfield to the Liaison Oversight Program.


### 5. IETF 87 Technical Plenary


After reviewing the responses received to the Call for Technical Plenary Topics, the board agreed to pursue WebRTC and Opus as the topic for the IETF 87 Technical Plenary. Bernard Aboba, Mary Barnes, and Hannes Tschofenig will develop the proposal further and report back to the IAB.


### 6. IPAD Workshop


The board agreed to hold a Workshop on Internet Protocol Adoption / Diffusion (IPAD), tentatively scheduled for early December in Cambridge. The current timeline includes sending a Call for Participation by 15 June 2013. Eliot Lear will update the proposed Call for Participation text and send it to the IAB for approval.


### 7. RSOC Appointment Process


Joel Halpern reported that he and Bernard Aboba have been meeting with the people who accepted nominations to the RSOC, and are hoping to make a recommendation to the board within the next two weeks.


### 8. Root Zone KSK Rollover


The board agreed to provide consultation to ICANN on the Root Zone KSK Rollover [[http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/root-zone-consultation-08mar13-en.htm](https://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/root-zone-consultation-08mar13-en.htm)]. Russ Housley will draft a response and send it to the IAB for approval.


### 9. Documents


#### 9.1. draft-iab-privacy-considerations


The IAB Call for Approval on draft-iab-privacy-considerations concluded, and Alissa Cooper posted an updated version of the document. The board agreed to publish draft-iab-privacy-considerations on the IAB stream. Russ Housley will send a Request to Publish draft-iab-privacy-considerations to the RFC Editor.


#### 9.2. draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications


Dave Thaler reminded the board that the IAB Last Call on draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications ends on Friday, 24 May 2013.


