
Minutes of the 2013-11-05 IAB Business Meeting Vancouver, BC, Canada
--------------------------------------------------------------------


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Dave Thaler


### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Adiel Akplogan (AfriNIC) – via WebEx
* Cathy Handley (ARIN)
* Geoff Huston (APNIC)
* Axel Pawlik (RIPE)
* Arturo Servin (LACNIC) – via WebEx
* Sofia Silva Berenguer (LACNIC)
* Lynn St. Amour


### 1. RPKI Trust Anchor


The IAB met with representatives from the RIRs to discuss the global RPKI trust anchor. Russ Housley briefly reviewed the history of the topic, starting with the [IAB Statement on the RPKI](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/docs2010/iab-statement-on-the-rpki/ "IAB Statement on the RPKI") that was originally published on 27 January2010.


Axel Pawlik noted that RIPE NCC is not able to participate in any work towards a global trust anchor, including test bed work, at this time. RIPE NCC is working towards a community guidance on how to proceed.


Geoff Huston reported that APNIC has been waiting for IANA to respond to feedback about the level of formalism and procedure proposed for the RPKI, noting that the proposal on the table replicated procedures for the root key of the DNS. APNIC is also willing to proceed with the test bed.


Adiel Akplogan noted that AfriNIC has concerns similar to those of RIPE, that the global trust anchor should be more international.


Arturo Servin reiterated LACNIC’s support for RPKI, but has concerns about the current political landscape.


Russ Housley asked if there is anything the IAB can do to help this move forward. Cathy Handley replied that ARIN would appreciate something asking the RIRs to continue trials but hold off on production for now, but noted that it was not absolutely necessary.


Geoff Huston noted that there are outstanding technical issues that need addressing, such as rolling the root keys and the fragility of the proposed system; those issues are being discussed in the SIDR Working Group.


Russ Housley noted that it sounds like the RIRs are all willing to at least proceed with the test bed for now, but that the IAB will need to watch the ICANN globalization efforts to see how that affects the RIRs’ decisions to continue beyond that.


### 2. ICANN TLG Representation


The IAB agreed to appoint Marc Blanchet and Russ Housley as interim representatives to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group in Buenos Aires. The IAB also agreed to appoint Eliot Lear as a backup in case either Marc’s or Russ’s personal schedules cannot be accommodated.


The call for volunteers for the technical experts to ICANN Technical Liaison Group closes on 17 November 2013. Andrew Sullivan will coordinate interviews with the candidates.


