
Minutes of the 2013-09-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Andrew Sullivan


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The BOF Coordination call for IETF 88 is currently scheduled for 0800-1100 PT on Tuesday, 24 September 2013. There is a proposal to move the time of the call to be one hour earlier. The IAB agreed that they had no problem with changing the time of the call. Cindy Morgan will confirm that the IESG agrees with this change, and send out updated call parameters if necessary.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 28 August 2013 business meeting and the 4 September 2013 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


### 2. IETF 88 Technical Plenary


The board discussed the structure and potential speakers for an IETF 88 Technical Plenary on “Internet Hardening.” Potential content includes an overview of the recent developments, a discussion on what the IETF can (and cannot) do, and IETF policies (past, present, and future) on the matter.


Hannes Tschofenig agreed to put together a draft agenda with 1-2 potential speakers for each slot and send it to the IAB for further discussion.


### 3. ITAT Workshop Update


Eliot Lear delivered a brief update on the status of the ITAT Workshop. Eliot asked IAB and IESG members to let him know if they are planning to attend, so that he can plan the logistics. AMS is looking into securing a hotel room block for the workshop.


### 4. Webinar IPv6 LACNIC-ITU


LACNIC has asked for help finding a Spanish-speaking speaker from the technical community for a joint LACNIC-ITU webinar about IPv6 and the IPv4 exhaustion. Eliot Lear will forward the request to the IESG and see if they have any volunteers.


### 5. TLDs and collisions


The discussion of this agenda item was deferred until the next IAB business meeting on 18 September 2013.


### 6. October Tech Chat Topic


Eliot Lear is working to confirm Bruce Schneier for a tech chat on 18 September 2013 about Internet surveillance.


Hannes Tschofenig agreed to put together a proposal for a tech chat on securing the web for the 2 October 2013 IAB meeting.


### 7. NSA and Open Standards


The board discussed a possible joint statement on open standards from the signers of OpenStand. The board debated the merits of a single joint statement, or several separate statements, noting that a single statement might have to be too generic in order to accommodate all of the signing organizations. The board discussed what sort of consensus was needed to make such a statement, noting that it would probably depend on the content of the statement being made. Russ Housley noted that the goal is to get the statement out quickly so that it stays in the current news cycle.


Russ Housley agreed to forward the draft statement to the IAB once he receives it. The IAB will review the text and proceed from there.


### 8. Other Business


Earlier in the call, the IAB agreed to hold a meeting on 18 September 2013. Neither Cindy Morgan nor Mary Barnes will be available for that meeting. Cindy Morgan will find someone from the Secretariat to take minutes for that meeting.


