
Minutes of the 2013-06-19 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the board that the BOF Coordination call with the IESG will be on Thursday, 20 June 2013. Dave Thaler asked to add an agenda item on dotless domains.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2013 IAB Retreat were approved. Eliot Lear noted that the upcoming workshop referred to as the “IPAD Workshop” during the IAB Retreat has since been renamed to “Internet Technology Adoption and Transition (ITAT).”


The minutes of the 12 June 2013 Business Meeting remain under review.


### 2. WHOIS information for .arpa


The board discussed updates to the WHOIS information for .arpa. The board agreed to change the organization name and administrative contact to Internet Architecture Board (IAB) with an address c/o the Internet Society (ISOC). Russ Housley will follow up with IANA to update this information.


### 3. Dotless domains


The board discussed the first draft of a proposed IAB Statement on dotless domains. Andrew Sullivan will update the text based on the discussion and send it out to the IAB for review before the next IAB business meeting on 26 June 2013.


### 4. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The board selected five non-IAB members to serve on the RSOC beginning at IETF 87. They are Alexey Melnikov, Nevil Brownlee, Bob Hinden, Joe Hildebrand, and Tony Hansen. In addition, Bernard Aboba and Joel Halpern will continue to serve on the RSOC as IAB Members.


