
Minutes of the 2013-11-03 IAB Business Meeting
Vancouver, BC, Canada
--------------------------------------------------------------------


#### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


#### REGRETS


* Bernard Aboba
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Lynn St. Amour


### 1. OpenStand


The IAB reiterated that OpenStand is a set of principles, rather than an organization. The board agreed to edit the headline of the recent statement posted to the IAB website on the strengths of the OpenStand principles to clarify that it is a statement from the IAB.


### 2. Finishing “Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast”


The IAB approved draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications pending final edits to the text of the document to be made by Dave Thaler. Russ Housley will send the document to the RFC Editor for publication.


### 3. ICANN TLG Representation in Buenos Aires


The IAB discussed the IETF’s representation in the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. The next ICANN meeting will be held 17-21 November 2013 in Buenos Aires, which is before the IETF liaison appointment process will be completed. The board agreed to send two IAB members to Buenos Aires as interim representatives until the liaison appointment process is completed. Board members agreed to check their availability; the IAB will revisit the question of who to send before the end of the week.


### 4. I\* CEO Meeting


Jari Arkko noted that there is an I\* CEO meeting scheduled for Buenos Aires immediately before the ICANN meeting. Expected agenda topics include ICANN globalization and IANA independence from the United States government.


Russ Housley noted that he also expects further discussion of the “coalition of the willing” to advocate multi-stakeholderism that was proposed by Fadi Chehade at IGF. The IAB agreed that it could not agree to be part of any coalition unless there are clear goals for the coalition and the consensus of the IETF community to move in that direction. The IAB plans to ask the community for feedback during the IGOVUPDATE BOF.


### 5. ISOC CEO Search Timeline


Lynn St. Amour reported that ISOC CEO search committee intends to make a decision by the end of November.


