
Minutes of the 2014-01-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia,


##### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### GUESTS


* Constance Bommelaer
* George Sadowsky


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The IAB agreed that the agenda topic on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment (see item 6 below) did not need to be held in an Executive Session.


It was noted that the IAB internal wiki is currently offline. Mary Barnes has reached out to Dreamhost support.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed. Alissa Cooper agreed to invite Bill Drake and Matthew Shears to the 5 February 2014 tech chat to talk about the Internet Governance Forum (IGF).


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 January 2014 and the 15 January 2015 meetings remain under review.


#### 2. /1net and Brazil


Constance Bommelaer (Senior Director, Global Policy Partnerships at ISOC) spoke to the IAB about ISOC’s participation in various groups and processes related to Internet governance. She noted that recent efforts have included work on coordination for /1net and for the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance being planned in Brazil.


Constance Bommelaer explained that George Sadowsky and others have been working on a set of principles for Internet governance (<http://www.internetsociety.org/effective-ig>) for the Internet technical community to speak from at upcoming events related to Internet governance. She expects the discussions to generate additional requests for the IAB and the IETF to get involved in Internet governance processes.


George Sadowsky noted that in the last decade, Internet stakeholders have become more rigid in terms of their concerns, putting the less-formal Internet technical community at a disadvantage. He hopes that the set of Internet governance principles currently under development will help with this.


Russ Housley asked how the Internet technical community would come to consensus on those principles. George Sadowsky replied that the principles will be kept at a high enough level to satisfy the current culture.


Constance Bommelaer noted that with the growing number of Internet governance processes and dialogues, there are increasing opportunities for the Internet technical community to provide input and for participation from the IAB and the IETF. Eliot Lear noted that the IAB has largely been relying on ISOC to let the IAB know when there are activities that would benefit from their participation. Constance suggested that the IAB continue to leverage their ISOC liaison in order to stay informed. Mat Ford agreed to ask for IAB agenda time on future public policy items where ISOC believes more engagement from the IAB would be of use.


#### 3. IGOVUPDATE


Marc Blanchet reported that he requested a meeting slot for the IGOVUPDATE session at IETF 89. Olaf Kolkman has agreed to present draft-iab-iana-framework. Marc will send the draft agenda out to the IAB for review.


#### 4. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


The IAB discussed the Technical Plenary at IETF 89, and agreed to divide the 2-hour session as follows:


* Reporting (IAB Chair, IRTF Chair, RSE and RSOC Chair) – 30 minutes
* Technical Topic Speaker #1 – 30 minutes
* Technical Topic Speaker #2 – 30 minutes
* Technical Topic Q&A – 15 minutes
* IAB Open Mic Session – 15 minutes


The IAB agreed that Eliot Lear will invite Rainer Bohme to speak about why Bitcoin became successful in spite of the factors stacked against it, and that Dave Thaler will then invite Malcolm Pearson to speak about how the mobile banking industry is operating without standards.


#### 5. ISOC BoT Appointment


Mary Barnes agreed to send the timeline for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment out to the IAB via email. The current plan is to send the call for nominations by the end of next week and conduct candidate interviews during IETF 89.


#### 6. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB agreed upon the selections to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Warren Kumari was selected to serve a two-year term and Daniel Migault was selected to serve a one-year term. Andrew Sullivan will follow up with all of the candidates to thank them for their interest.


Marc Blanchet recused himself from all discussions on this topic.


#### 7. Technical Plenary at IETF 90


Marc Blanchet agreed to reach out to the Canadian Space Agency about having Chris Hadfield speak about Internet connections to the International Space Station during the IETF 90 Technical Plenary.


