
Minutes of the 2014-07-20 IAB Business Meeting 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 0. Roll Call


#### Present


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Xing Li
* Eliot Lear
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell


#### Guest


* Olaf Kolkman


### 1. Plenary


The IAB reviewed the plans for the IETF 90 Technical Plenary. Each of the technical speakers will present for 5-7 minutes, followed by a panel session moderated by Andrew Sullivan.


Joe Hildebrand noted that the SLA numbers in the RSE report may spark discussion. Joel Halpern will follow up with Heather Flanagan about adding the backup slides that better explain the SLA number.


### 2. Common DNS Root


The discussion of the common DNS root was deferred to a future IAB business meeting so that Jonne Soininen can participate in the discussion.


### 3. Name Resolution Program


The IAB briefly discussed the proposed description of the Name Resolution Program. Andrew Sullivan will update the text to incorporate recommendations from Dave Thaler, and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 4. ICANN NomCom Volunteers


The IAB decided to extend the call for volunteers for the IETF representative to the ICANN NomCom through 25 July 2014. Russ Housley will send out an updated announcement.


Cindy Morgan will create a mailing list for discussion of the nominees.


### 5. Budget


Russ Housley reported that the IAOC has asked that the IAB not increase their spending this year; that is not expected to be a problem.


ISOC and the IAOC are currently investigating whether to increase the RSE’s weekly hours. Joe Hildebrand reported that the RSOC has added milestones for the RSE to reach the end of the RFC format project.


### 6. ISE Feedback


The IAB is is currently seeking feedback on the Independent Submissions Editor. The IAB will discuss the next steps for the ISE contract at the next IAB business meeting.


### 7. UDP 3.5 / IP Stack Evolution Program


Joe Hildebrand reported that several people met on Saturday evening to discuss UDP 3.5. He noted that it is too early to have consensus, but that some of the TAPS work will be helpful.


The IAB agreed to add Stuart Cheshire, Lars Eggert, Jana Iyengar, and Michael Welzl to the IP Stack Evolution Program. Cindy Morgan will update the web page and mailing list accordingly. Brian Trammell will act as Program Lead.


### 8. IANA Evolution Program


The IAB agreed to add Barry Leiba to the IANA Evolution Program. Cindy Morgan will update the web page and mailing list accordingly.


### 9. Newark Meeting with IEEE 802


The IAB agreed to ask Cindy Morgan to travel to the IETF-IEEE 802 coordination meeting in September to take minutes.


### 10. Other Business


The IAB canceled the breakfast meeting scheduled for Tuesday, 22 July 2014.


