
Minutes of the 2014-01-29 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 January 2014 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 15 January 2014 and 22 January 2014 meetings remain under review.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 89


The board reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 89. Russ Housley agreed to invite Stephen Farrell to the IAB business meeting on Sunday afternoon to recap the STRINT workshop.


Eliot Lear suggested inviting Sally Wentworth to a future IAB meeting (either a teleconference or in London during IETF 89) to discuss upcoming Internet governance issues. Russ Housley agreed to check with Sally to find out her availability.


Lars Eggert asked the IAB which Research Group they would like to review at IETF 89. After a brief discussion, Lars and the IAB agreed to follow up on this over email.


### 3. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


The IAB discussed the Technical Plenary for IETF 89, noting that Rainer Bohme would be unavailable to present the paper on Bitcoin that he presented at the ITAT workshop. The IAB briefly discussed alternate proposals, but decided to wait until Hannes Tschfonig reported back on another potential speaker before proceeding. Dave Thaler took the action to follow up with Hannes.


### 4. ISOC BOT Appointment


The IAB approved the timeline for the 2014 ISOC Board of Trustees appointment. Russ Housley will send the call for volunteers on 30 January 2014.


Eliot Lear volunteered to coordinate the interview process, with the help of Mary Barnes. Ross Callon agreed to participate in the candidate interviews.


### 5. Upcoming teleconference schedule


The IAB reviewed the upcoming teleconference schedule, and agreed to add a meeting on 19 February 2014 and cancel the meeting on 26 February 2014. Cindy Morgan will update the internal calendar accordingly.


### 6. RIPE NCC Roundtable Meeting, 19 February, Brussels


The IAB discussed an invitation to participate in the RIPE NCC Roundtable meeting being held in Brussels on 19 February 2014. Jari Arkko and Eliot Lear agreed to put together a plan for participating in that meeting and present it to the IAB at the next IAB teleconference on 5 February 2014.


### 7. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


The IAB approved sending draft-iab-filtering-considerations out for IETF-wide Call for Comments. Alissa Cooper will publish the -06 version of the document, and then Russ Housley will send the Call for Comments message to the community.


### 8. Executive Session: IESG Slate Approval


Jari Arkko and Alissa Cooper recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the IESG slate from the NomCom in an executive session.


