
Minutes of the 2014-12-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Items on the NMI statement and the proposed Evolution of Messaging workshop were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was not reviewed, as most open actions would be discussed later on the agenda.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 9 November 2014 business meeting
* 10 November 2014 business meeting
* 11 November 2014 business meeting
* 13 November 2014 business meeting
* IETF 91 Technical Plenary


The minutes from the 26 November 2014 business meeting were also approved, pending edits to be made by Cindy Morgan.


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


Mary Barnes reported that she is waiting for a reply from Shafi Goldwasser; if she has not heard anything back by the end of this week, Mary will ask Kathleen Moriarty for help making contact.


### 3. Program Output


The IAB discussed how to handle output from IAB Programs. Ted Hardie asked whether Programs can have output that is not the output of the IAB as a whole. He cited IAB workshop report RFCs as an example of IAB work that does not necessarily have IAB consensus, as workshop reports are intended to be the factual reflection of what happened at the workshop.


Joel Halpern replied that if a Program was to function in that way, he would expect that would be made clear in the Program’s charter. Andrew Sullivan observed that such a Program would be uncomfortably close to being a body that does not have consensus rules. Dave Thaler added that the IAB would not want a Program to be doing work that should be happening in an IETF Working Group.


Eliot Lear pointed out that there are qualitative differences between a workshop report (as a factual summary of what happened) and the advocation of a position. He added that if the IAB was to consider a separate non-consensus publication track within the IAB stream, there would have to be ground rules around it. Further, Eliot noted that he is uncomfortable with non-consensus positions coming out of IAB Programs.


Several IAB members asked for more time to consider the issue. The IAB will discuss this further at their next business meeting (10 December 2014).


### 4. draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response


The IAB briefly discussed draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response, which is currently in IETF Last Call. The IAB provisionally approved the text for the IAB statement to be added to the document once consensus has been called by the Area Director.


Eliot Lear will draft text with an assessment of the level of consensus on the proposal, to be included in this document.


### 5. draft-iab-iana-principles


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-iana-principles out for IETF-wide Call for Comment, pending edits to be made by Russ Housley.


### 6. IAB Statement on the NETmundial Initiative


The IAB discussed the IAB Statement on the NETmundial Initiative. After a live editing session, the IAB reached consensus on the statement. Andrew Sullivan will send the final text out to the IAB list for review, and Russ Housley will ask that any objections to the text be raised by the end of the day.


### 7. Evolution of Messaging


In Honolulu, Eliot Lear proposed a workshop on the evolution of messaging. Eliot reported that after some discussions with Barry Leiba and various M3AAWG advisors, he is putting this on hold for now. Eliot will attend the next M3AAWG meeting in February 2015, and come back to the IAB when he has more information.


### 8. IAB Appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group


The IAB approved the questionnaire for the IAB appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will send the questionnaire to the candidates.


Russ Housley will send a message to the community requesting feedback on the candidates.


### 9. Executive Session: IAB Appointment to the IAOC


The IAB appointed Benson Schliesser to a term on the IAOC beginning in March 2015. Russ Housley will follow up with all of the candidates before sending out an announcement.


### 10. IAB Appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion.


The IAB approved the text for the call for nominations for the IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees, pending the addition of a note that Russ Housley is recusing himself from the process. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations from the IAB Executive Administrative Manager address.


