
Minutes of the 2014-11-09 IAB Business Meeting 
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
---------------------------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li (via WebEx)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell (via WebEx)


### GUESTS


* Leslie Daigle
* Olaf Kolkman
* Barry Leiba
* Sally Wentworth


### 1. Future Potential Workshops


#### 1.1. Evolution of Messaging Workshop


Eliot Lear proposed holding a workshop in March 2015 on the evolution of messaging. He noted that as email gets more difficult to manage, users are moving to other messaging systems.


Alissa Cooper asked if Eliot Lear was talking about SPAM, and he replied that that is one component of the problem. Dave Thaler noted that email and messaging in general are very different topics, and that different messaging platforms have different expectations. Joe Hildebrand added that he does not think the existing email infrastructure can be fixed; it would be better to start fresh. The proposed workshop would try to answer whether there is work to be done on this topic, and whether it should be evolutionary or revolutionary.


The IAB asked to see a full workshop proposal or draft Call for Papers before making a decision whether to proceed with this workshop.


#### 1.2. Privacy and Security with 802


Russ Housley reported that during the IAB/IESG meeting with the IEEE 802 Executive Committee at the end of September, a joint workshop on privacy and security was proposed for the second half of 2015. Juan Carlos Zuniga would be the contact from the 802 side. Ted Hardie noted that he would be willing to put time into such an effort, adding that as an alternative to running a full workshop, the Privacy and Security Program could run a joint meeting with the 802 Study Group. Ted will follow up with 802 and report back; Mary Barnes, Alissa Cooper, and Russ Housley agreed to help.


### 2. SEMI Workshop


Joe Hildebrand reported that the deadline for submitting papers to the SEMI workshop has passed, and that around 30 papers were received. The workshop committee is currently reviewing the submissions, and expects to issue invitations in the next couple of weeks.


### 3. Working with ISOC on Technical Plenaries


Russ Housley noted that ISOC has planned several successful technical lunch sessions during IETFs, and asked what the IAB could learn from them when planning technical plenaries.


Olaf Kolkman noted that the topics for the ISOC lunches tend to be slightly removed from the day-to-day work of the IETF. He added that they have an hour-long pre-meeting with the panelists on site to hash out what questions would be useful to ask and what message people should take from these panels. Additionally, the panelists are usually people who would be attending the IETF meeting anyway. Overall, the goal is the same as with technical plenaries: the session should be informative or entertaining, and preferably both.


The IAB went around the room and shared what their favorite past plenaries were, and tried to see what they had in common. Dave Thaler observed that in most of the favorite plenaries, it was IETF participants delivering the message, rather than outside speakers.


Lars Eggert suggested that for more niche topics with a smaller audience, the IAB could ask for time during the regular agenda rather than holding a full technical plenary. Dave Thaler asked if the technical IAB Programs should have an obligation to put forward a technical plenary talk sometime in the next two years. Olaf Kolkman agreed with Dave, adding that much of the Program work in progress could make for an interesting plenary. The Program Leads took an action to ask the Programs for plenary topics.


The IAB will continue to discuss this topic further after IETF 91.


### 4. ITU Plenipot Readout


Kathy Brown and Sally Wentworth briefed the IAB on the outcomes of the recent ITU Plenipotentiary Conference. Discussions focused on the ITU’s scope with regards to things like privacy, surveillance, human rights, policy, affordability, and sovereignty. There was no voting; all outcomes were reached by consensus. The treaty and ITU official definitions did not change, nor did the ITU expand its scope with respect to Internet operational issues.


Sally Wentworth noted that after WCIT at the end of 2012, the Internet technical community was asked to engage with the policy makers; the effects of that outreach were apparent during Plenipot in a positive way.


Sally Wentworth will provide a brief update on Plenipot during the IAB Plenary at IETF 91.


### 5. IAB Statement About Encryption


The discussion about the IAB statement on encryption was deferred to later in the week due to lack of time.


