
Minutes of the 2014-10-29 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Several items were added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


Brian Trammell took an action to send text to Russ Housley for a reminder about the SEMI Workshop.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 22 October 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 91


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 91. Russ Housley noted that the joint lunch meeting with the IESG on Sunday will begin at 1130, which is 30 minutes earlier than previously planned.


Cindy Morgan and Brian Trammell will work together offline to make accommodations for Brian to attend parts of the IAB meetings remotely.


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 91


The IAB plans to cover BOFs at IETF 91 as follows:


* ACTN: Erik Nordmark is the BOF shepherd.
* ANIMA: Eliot Lear will cover the first session; Dave Thaler will cover the second.
* ARCMEDIA: Ted Hardie and Eliot Lear are covering.
* BIER: Joel Halpern is the BOF shepherd.
* DETNET : Erik Nordmark is the BOF shepherd.
* DTN: Marc Blanchet is covering.
* I2NSF: Russ Housley is covering.


### 4. draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response


Andrew Sullivan noted that draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response is currently in Working Group Last Call. Marc Blanchet added that the WGLC is scheduled to end the day after the IANAPLAN meeting in Honolulu, and noted that the WG would prefer people send their reviews prior to the meeting.


### 5. draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname


The IAB approved new text for the IAB considerations section of draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname, pending edits to be made by Marc Blanchet. Marc will update the text and send it to Mary Barnes to pass along to the IESG in her role as IAB liaison.


### 6. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


The IAB discussed the updates to be made to draft-iab-smart-object-architecture now that community review has ended. Dave Thaler will update the document and send it to Russ Housley for posting during the I-D submission blackout period, in hopes that the IAB can approve the document in Honolulu.


### 7. draft-reschke-xml2rfc


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-reschke-xml2rfc as an IAB-stream document. Joel Halpern will let Heather Flanagan know that the draft-iab- version of this document can be posted once the I-D submission tool re-opens during IETF 91.


### 8. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


The IAB briefly discussed the technical plenary for IETF 92. This topic will be discussed further on Sunday during IETF 91.


### 9. Proposed CSIRT / FIRST Workshop


The IAB discussed a proposal from Kathleen Moriarty for the IAB to co-sponsor a workshop in conjunction with the Forum for Incident Response Team (FIRST) conference in July 2015.


After discussion, Ted Hardie agreed to coordinate with Kathleen Moriarty, interested IAB members, and the Emergency Services Program to further discuss this proposal.


### 10. IAB Appointment to the IAOC


The IAB briefly discussed their appointment to the IAOC. Cindy Morgan reported that all of the candidates who have accepted their nominations have been sent questionnaires, and that the IAB is waiting to receive replies.


Eliot Lear, Mary Barnes and Andrew Sullivan agreed to help Ted Hardie interview the candidates during IETF 91; Marc Blanchet will also participate in the interviews as his time permits.


Ted Hardie will contact the candidates and ask them if they have any questions about IAOC service that they would like answered prior to their interviews; Jari Arkko and Russ Housley will help answer any questions received.


### 11. IAB Appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group


The IAB briefly discussed the their appointment to the ICANN TLG. Cindy Morgan will update the wiki page to track the status of nominations received.


### 12. IAB Appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees


Ted Hardie reported that ISOC accepted the IAB’s request for additional time to make their appointments to the ISOC BOT. The current plan is that the IAB will have their appointments confirmed by 5 May 2015.


Noting that the IAB will be making two appointments to the ISOC BOT for 2015, the IAB agreed to begin the process earlier, starting just after IETF 91, rather than waiting until January. Cindy Morgan will update the timeline in the wiki accordingly. Ted Hardie will prepare a slide for the IAB report at IETF 91 that notes the timeline and number of appointments.


### 13. IETF Participation in ICANN Plenaries


The IAB discussed the request for IETF participation in ICANN’s quarterly stakeholder calls and plenaries. Jari Arkko noted that the request was for a brief (two-minute) update. The IAB discussed whether this would be appropriate, and who would do the reporting. Several people expressed skepticism at the value of this exercise. Russ Housley noted that the IETF had attempted something similar in the past, where during a Monday plenary, Area Directors took a few minutes to talk about their Area’s hot spots. Russ noted that the time allotted was never enough to fully explain the situations, and that eventually those sessions were viewed as a waste of time by the community and were abandoned.


Jari Arkko will reply to the request from ICANN, noting the IETF’s unfavorable experience with trying to have similar reporting in the past.


### 14. RIRs in Honolulu


Eliot Lear noted that it would be helpful to meet with representatives from the RIRs to talk about the ongoing IANA changes. Eliot will try to organize a meeting with the RIRs during IETF 91.


