
Minutes of the 2014-05-28 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Brian Trammell
* Dave Thaler
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Andrew Sullivan


##### GUEST


* Constance Bommelaer (present through item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to make their hotel reservations for IETF 90 in Toronto.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 30 April 2014 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 14 May 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Internet Governance Forum (IGF)


Constance Bommelaer, Senior Director, Global Policy Partnerships at ISOC, joined the IAB to discuss the upcoming IGF scheduled for Istanbul in September. She noted that the outcome of this IGF will provide input into the United Nations’ decision whether to renew the IGF mandate at the UN General Assembly. Constance expects that this year’s IGF should attract a high level of participation from the technical community. There will be at least three sessions on the Internet governance landscape, as well as an open mic session about IANA and discussions about net neutrality.


Constance Bommelaer noted that the IGF is working to become more outcome-oriented, without turning into a negotiating body. IGF is launching a forum on Best Practices that will produce documented outcomes that IGF participants can share outside the IGF circle.


Constance Bommelaer reported that ISOC has decided to increase its financial contribution to IGF, because it believes that having a strong IGF is a way to show that it is not necessary to create new intergovernmental bodies.


Eliot Lear asked about events happening prior to IGF. Constance Bommelaer replied that there will be a ministerial event (generally attended by those at the CEO level), as well as an event hosted by Brazil that will revisit the outcomes of NETmundial. The Brazilian event will focus on the outcomes from NETmundial that focused on improvements to IGF.


Russ Housley asked if IGF would come to any decisions about net neutrality, or whether they would continue current discussions. Constance Bommelaer replied that she does not believe the issue is mature enough yet to come to a decision, but that the MAG Chair may ask the IGF community to come up with policy recommendations between now and 2015.


Jari Arkko asked where the IAB and IETF should focus their efforts on the IGF. Constance Bommelaer replied that she would come up with a list of activities where it would be useful to have IAB/IETF input and will pass that along to the IAB via Mat Ford.


Currently, Jari Arkko, Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, Russ Housley, and Xing Li are all planning to attend IGF.


### 3. I\* Leaders Meeting in September


Eliot Lear noted that both IGF and the next I\* Leaders meeting are timed just prior to the ITU Plenipotentiary Conference, and suggested that the IAB work to coordinate their positions for all three. The IAB agreed that they should have consensus on their opinions in advance, and Russ Housley agreed to start a conversation about those positions.


Currently, Ted Hardie is planning to join Russ Housley at the I\* Leaders meeting.


### 4. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


The IAB briefly discussed the IETF 90 Technical Plenary. The IAB will continue the discussion via email.


### 5. UDP 3.5


Brian Trammell reported that a mailing list has been set up for the UDP 3.5 discussions and that plans are being made for a side meeting in Toronto. Participants are currently discussing what work should be taken into an IAB Program and what should be taken in a proposed TAPS Working Group. Brian suggested that the Program could be used as a place for the people doing the work to coordinate with each other.


Brian Trammell will draft an updated scope for the TCP/IP Evolution Program that includes the UDP 3.5 work.


### 6. Proposed ICANN Bylaws Revision


The IAB agreed to send comments to ICANN on their proposed bylaws revision. Russ Housley will ask Andrew Sullivan to draft a statement on behalf of the IAB.


### 7. draft-iab-itat-report-03


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-itat-report pending a new revision to be posted by Eliot Lear. Once the new revision is posted, Russ Housley will forward the document to the RFC Editor on behalf of the IAB.


### 8. Liaison Oversight Program


Eliot Lear asked for an additional IAB member to join the Liaison Oversight Program. Marc Blanchet volunteered to join; Cindy Morgan will update the website and mailing list accordingly.


### 9. ECMA TC39


Eliot Lear reported that ECMA responded positively to the IAB’s request for a liaison. For now, Eliot Lear will serve as Liaison Shepherd, and will work with Pete Resnick to put together a call for volunteers for the Liaison Manager Role. Joe Hildebrand asked to be kept in the loop on any further discussions.


### 10. Privacy and Security Program


Ted Hardie reported that he has announced the new Privacy and Security Program to the old Privacy Program and old Security Program. On the IAB side, currently Ted Hardie, Mary Barnes, Russ Housley, Eliot Lear, Xing Li, and Brian Trammell are planning to participate in the new Program. The IAB also approved Alissa Cooper as a non-IAB member of the Program. Ted will work with Cindy Morgan to update the website and mailing list.


The next step is for the Program to review the responses to the call for volunteers and begin identifying potential focus area leads.


### 11. IAB Liaison to the 2014-2015 NomCom


Joe Hildebrand will serve as the IAB Liaison to the IETF NomCom for 2014-2015. Cindy Morgan will update the website and inform the NomCom Chair.


### 12. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


