
Minutes of the 2014-08-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Erik Nordmark
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


#### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the hotel deadline for the IAB/IESG meeting with the IEEE 802 Executive Committee is 15 September 2014. She also reminded the IAB that Marcia Beaulieu sent the IAB an email about hotel reservations for IETF 91.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 August 2014 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 13 August 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IETF 91 Tech Plenary


Joe Hildebrand reported that Peter Saint-Andre will not be able to travel to IETF 91. Joe is reaching out to an alternative speaker who can discuss the XMPP community’s experience in moving to all-TLS. Joe will report back to the IAB soon on the alternate speaker’s availability, and schedule a tech chat on the topic.


The IAB agreed to set a deadline of 1 October 2014 to decide whether to go ahead with this technical topic. Mary Barnes will reach out to the IESG regarding alternate plenary models if there is no technical topic.


### 3. Name Resolution Program


Joe Hildebrand and Eliot Lear have open action items to send proposed updates to the Name Resolution Program description text to Andrew Sullivan for incorporation in the next revision.


Andrew Sullivan noted that he is traveling with a loaned computer through 6 September 2014, and thus is missing some files. He asked that any edits to the text be made inline, so that he has the complete text.


### 4. IP Stack Evolution Program


The IAB added Mirja Kühlewind and Martin Stiemerling to the IP Stack Evolution Program.


Brian Trammell reported that the Program is still looking to possibly add members with experience in path signaling.


### 5. WHOIS Information for .arpa


The IAB discussed the updated proposal for WHOIS information for .arpa. Russ Housley noted that the contact information should align with RFC 3172, and that the remarks field can be used to clarify the delegation.


Eliot Lear will draft a short document that describes how RFC 3172 has been implemented.


### 6. IGF Best Practices Call for Comment


Mat Ford forwarded a request from the IGF to review and comment on their best practices document. Due to the short comment period, IAB members will review and provide comments individually, rather than as a group.


Russ Housley asked Cindy Morgan to forward the request to Jonne Soininen as well.


### 7. IAB Considerations for draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname


The IAB discussed the IAB Considerations for draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname; however, since a couple of the main participants in the discussion were having trouble with the audio portion of the conference bridge at this point, the IAB agreed to continue the discussion by email, and to add this again to the agenda of the next IAB business meeting. Ted Hardie will follow up with Joel Jaeggli to let him know that the IAB discussion is ongoing.


### 8. IAB-Stream Errata


The IAB reviewed current errata reported on IAB-stream documents. The IAB agreed to mark erratum 4058 on RFC 7241 and erratum 4086 on RFC 7305 both as “Verified.” Russ Housley will verify these in the RFC Editor’s errata system.


### 9. IANA Stewardship Transition Coordination Group (ICG)


Alissa Cooper reported that the ICG is working on a Request for Proposals from the names, numbers, and protocol parameters communities. Alissa asked the IAB to look at the draft RFP and provide comments.


Eliot Lear reported that the IAB IANA Evolution Program is aware of the RFP, and is planning to send a response.


