
Minutes of the 2014-07-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Xing Li
* Eliot Lear
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair) (present for item 9 only)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An executive session on the common DNS root was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 11 June 2014 tech chat were approved. The minutes of the 25 June 2014 business meeting were approved, but embargoed for public posting pending the official announcement of the ECMA TC-39 liaison manager.


### 2. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


The IAB approved the text for the invitations to the potential IETF 90 Technical Plenary panelists. Andrew Sullivan will issue the invitations accordingly.


Andrew Sullivan will draft an updated outline for the panel discussion on topology and geography.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 90


Russ Housley reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 90.


Lars Eggert reported that neither the NMRG nor the NWCRG chairs will be in Toronto, and suggested skipping the IRTF Research Group review at IETF 90. The IAB agreed to skip this review for IETF 90, and instead will move the Privacy and Security Program meeting into that slot to de-conflict it with the Systers lunch. Cindy Morgan will update the agenda on the wiki and follow up with the meeting planners regarding food and beverage service.


### 4. BOF Coverage at IETF 90


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to sign up for BOF coverage at IETF 90 on the wiki. She noted that the ACTN BOF chairs have asked for a formal IAB BOF shepherd. Russ Housley will email Erik Nordmark and see if he is available to serve as IAB shepherd for the ACTN BOF. Eliot Lear indicated that he would be willing to act as BOF shepherd if Erik is unavailable.


The IAB will discuss this topic again at their next business meeting (9 July 2014) to firm up the BOF coverage plans.


### 5. C/C++ API liaison manager


Dave Thaler reported that he had had email correspondence with Herb Sutter, chair (“convener”) of ISO/IEC JTC1/SC22, although they have not yet met directly. He reported that at the June ISO meeting there was a push to make progress on a networking library based on Boost.ASIO. The IAB noted that if the Boost libraries are being used, the APIs may not need further review in the IETF; however, it was unclear how the URI APIs will be affected.


Dave Thaler will meet with Herb Sutter and report back to the IAB as to how working with SC22 can be re-scoped.


### 6. ISE Position


The IAB discussed the ISE contract. Joel Halpern will draft a call for feedback on the current ISE and send it to the IAB for review. Russ Housley will follow up with the IAOC on the ISE review.


### 7. ICANN NomCom Appointment 2015


Eliot Lear reported that Russ Mundy has indicated that he will not be able to continue as the IETF appointee for the ICANN NomCom for 2015. Eliot Lear will update the call for volunteers text to thank Russ for his service. Once Eliot has updated the text, he will hand it over to Russ Housley to send out on behalf of the IAB.


### 8. Common DNS Root


The IAB discussed the need to reinforce the benefits of a common DNS root. Russ Housley will invite Jonne Soininen to the Sunday afternoon IAB meeting in Toronto to discuss this further.


### 9. Executive Session: RSE Position


The RSE position was discussed in an executive session.


