
Minutes of the 2014-11-11 IAB Business Meeting
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
--------------------------------------------------------------------


### PRESENT


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li (via WebEx)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell (via WebEx)


### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


### GUESTS (from the Privacy and Security Program)


* Nick Doty (via WebEx)
* Joe Hall
* Christian Huitema
* Lucy Lynch
* Karen O’Donoghue
* Andrei Robachevsky
* Thomas Roessler (via WebEx)
* Christine Runnegar
* Wendy Seltzer (via WebEx)
* Juan Carlos Zuniga


### 1. IAB Statement on Encryption


The IAB met with members of the Privacy and Security Program to discuss the proposed IAB statement on encryption.


At this point in the process, there were several versions of the statement being circulated on the mailing lists. Ted Hardie noted that despite the differences between versions, he believes that the goal remains the same: to have an Internet where encryption is the norm, because that will increase confidence in the system. He added that the original version produced by the Program would do a good job of starting the discussions to make that happen within the Internet technical community.


The group discussed whether to include exceptions in the statement, and eventually agreed that it was better to not list specific exceptions. Dave Thaler noted that the statement should set the proper tone for further discussion, as there are many entwined issues and audiences involved with encrypting the Internet.


Brian Trammell will edit the statement based on this discussion, and will circulate it to the IAB and Privsec mailing lists for further review. Russ Housley noted that he hopes the IAB will be able to approve the statement before the end of IETF 91.


