
Minutes of the 2014-10-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan noted that Summer Time will end in Europe this weekend, but that Daylight Savings Time does not end in North America until 2 November. As such, the time for next week’s meeting will be shifted for some people by an hour; more details will be sent with the next agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


Ted Hardie asked to add an item to the next agenda (29 October 2014) on draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 October 2014 business meeting were approved.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 91


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 91. Russ Housley noted that the joint lunch meeting with the IESG on Sunday will begin at 1130, which is 30 minutes earlier than previously planned.


Joe Hildebrand asked that an item on the upcoming SEMI workshop be added to the agenda for Sunday afternoon. Cindy Morgan will update the agenda accordingly.


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 91


Cindy Morgan reported that the BOF coverage page in the wiki has been updated to include the current conflict list. She asked that IAB members take a look and sign up to cover any BOFs they are planning to attend.


### 4. draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response


Russ Housley noted that because of the IAB’s role in IANA oversight, a section will be added to draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response that indicates that the IAB is happy with the path forward proposed by the document. As such, he asked the IAB to track the progress of this document, and speak up quickly if anyone sees something that the IAB should not agree with.


### 5. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


The IAB discussed potential technical plenary topics for IETF 92. Kathleen Moriarty previously sent a message to the IAB suggesting one of the keynote speakers from the recent Grace Hopper Celebration as a follow up to the recent pervasive monitoring discussions; Dave Thaler forwarded a link to the recording from that talk for the IAB to review.


Eliot Lear suggested Stefan Savage as another potential speaker, and agreed to contact him regarding his availability.


### 6. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


Dave Thaler reported that a new version of draft-iab-smart-object-architecture has been posted to address the comments received during the IETF community review. He noted that some substantial changes had been made to the document to address those comments, particularly in the Security Considerations section. He asked that the IAB re-review the document to confirm their consensus. Russ Housley will send an email to the IAB asking them to confirm their consensus on the document. The next steps for the document will be discussed at the next IAB meeting on 29 October 2014, and that a slot will be reserved in the Monday morning meeting at IETF for closure if any further discussion is needed.


### 7. IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC)


The IAB discussed the role of the IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC). The IANAPLAN Working Group noted that the IPROC has no formal status, yet is referred to in the current SLA.


After discussion, the IAB agreed to ask the IAOC to remove the reference to the IPROC in future SLAs, and instead point to the IPROC’s parent bodies (the IAB and IAOC). Russ Housley will follow up with the IAOC accordingly.


Eliot Lear will work with the IAB’s IANA Evolution Program to formulate a response to the IANAPLAN Working Group about the role of the IPROC.


### 8. IAB Appointment to the IAOC


The IAB has received three nominations for the IAB appointment to the IAOC. Russ Housley is following up with the candidates to confirm that they accept these nominations. Russ Housley and Cindy Morgan will follow up and send questionnaires to candidates who accept their nominations.


Russ Housley will send out a reminder of the nominations period to the IETF-Announce list.


### 9. Appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group


Russ Housley will send out a call for volunteers for the IAB appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group.


### 10. 2015 Appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees


ISOC initially requested that the IAB make their appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees by 21 April 2015. Ted Hardie reported that he had asked ISOC if the IAB could have more time to make their appointments, as the IAB would like to use IETF 92 (at the end of March) to interview candidates. ISOC replied that it would depend on how much extra time was needed. Ted proposed replying that the IAB would make their appointments no later than 5 May 2015. The IAB agreed with this proposal, and Ted Hardie will follow up with ISOC accordingly.


### 11. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Selection


The IAB discussed the IRTF Chair selection in an executive session.


### 12. Executive Session: Applications Area Director Position


Jari Arkko recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference.


The IAB discussed advice to NomCom regarding the Applications Area Director position in an executive session.


### 13. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


