
Minutes of the 2014-06-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Marc Blanchet (present for item 11 only)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Xing Li
* Eliot Lear
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan (present for item 11 only)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the informal tech chat on topology and geography will take place later today.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2014 IAB Retreat and the 4 June 2014 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 11 June 2014 tech chat remain under review.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


#### –Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
17 June 2014

I. World IPv6 Launchiversary
To celebrate the 2nd anniversary of World IPv6 Launch in 2012, ISOC have 
produced an updated infographic capturing progress in IPv6 deployment in 
the last two years.  The new infographic is available here:

> [Infographic](https://www.worldipv6launch.org/infographic/)


We can also report that Google, Yahoo, and Akamai are continuing to 
supply monthly measurements on IPv6 traffic to their websites. These 
measurements are compiled on a monthly basis and the latest update is 
here: http://www.worldipv6launch.org/measurements/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–



```
Recent new working groups:
- Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ace)

Recently rechartered working groups:
- SIP Recording (siprec)
- Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (alto)
- Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (bfd)
- Benchmarking Methodology (bmwg)
- DNS-based Authentication of Named Entities (dane)

Current new chartering:
- Transport Services (taps) [Internal review ends 6/23]
- TCP Increased Security (tcpinc) [IESG review ends 6/26]

Current rechartering:
- None

Pending rechartering:
- Domain Name System Operations (dnsop)

Recently closed working groups:
- IMAP QRESYNC Extension (qresync)
- Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (karp)
- JSON data formats for vCard and iCalendar (jcardcal)

Personnel changes:
- Paul Wouters added as co-chair of trans.
- Kenny Paterson and Alexey Melnikov named new co-chairs of cfrg.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–


#### 2.3. IRTF Liaison Report


–Begin IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- RRG has closed.

- NCRG about to close.

- CFRG has new chairs: Alexey Melnikov and Kenny Paterson. David McGrew 
  stepped down, Kevin Igoe to stay on until retirement in 2015 for 
  continuity.

- ANRP 2015 selection committee formed, submissions open.
```

–End IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
====================================
(All public comment processes: 
https://www.icann.org/public-comments#open-public)

FY15 Draft Operating Plan and Budget 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/op-budget-fy15-2014-05-16-en)
Reply period close: 1 Jul 2014

Enhancing ICANN Accountability 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/enhancing-accountability-2014-05-06-en)
Reply period close: 27 Jun 2014

Report: Supporting the Domain Name Industry in Underserved Regions 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/dns-underserved-2014-05-14-en)
Reply period close: 30 Jun 2014

Proposed Implementation of GNSO PDP Recommendations on Locking of a Domain 
Name Subject to UDRP Proceedings - Revised UDRP Rules 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/udrp-rules-proposed-2014-05-19-en)
Reply period close: 18 Jul 2014

ICANN Draft Five-Year Strategic Plan (FY16 – FY20) 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/stratplan-draft-2014-04-09-en)
Comment period close: 27 Jun 2014

WHOIS Requirements and National Law Conflicts 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/whois-conflicts-procedure-2014-05-22-en)
Comment period close: 3 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Study to Evaluate Solutions for the Submission and Display of Internationalized Contact Data 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/transform-dnrd-2014-06-03-en)
Comment period close: 3 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 24 Jul 2014

.NGO and .ONG Registry Services Evaluation Process Request – Introduction of Technical Bundling 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/tech-bundling-2014-06-10-en)
Comment period close: 8 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 30 Jul 2014

.WED Registry Agreement Amendment - Introduction of Third Level Domain Sales 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/wed-amendment-2014-06-04-en)
Comment period close: 9 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 31 Jul 2014

.PARIS - Introduction of Approved Launch Program 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/paris-alp-application-2014-06-12-en)
Comment period close: 10 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Introduction of Two-Character Domain Names in the New gTLD Namespace 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/two-char-new-gtld-2014-06-12-en)
Comment period close: 10 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Universal Acceptance of TLDs Draft Roadmap 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/tld-acceptance-initiative-2014-06-18-en)
Comment period close: 18 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 8 Aug 2014

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
==========================================

The ICANN meeting is ongoing this week. Some of the topics will be 
discussed only later during the week. However, here are the topic 
highlights I thought would be interesting to the IAB.

NTIA stewardship transition and ICANN accountability
-------------------------------------------------

Though, these are two separate issues, I've put them together in this 
report as they are addressed during the ICANN week in similarly. There 
are two sessions on Thursday: One considering the NTIA stewardship 
transition and the other on ICANN accountability. I understand that Jari 
and Alissa are very involved in the NTIA stewardship transition part.

These topics, understandably, are very hot topics within the ICANN 
community and the discussion is ongoing both in formal sessions and in 
hallway conversations.

However, the real discussion will be held on Thursday as said and I hope 
to have more to write in the next report.

Name collisions 
(https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/name-collision-2013-12-06-en)
---------------

The name collisions related to new gTLDs has been a hot topic. There has 
been two versions of the ICANN contracted report from JAS (https://
www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/name-collision-mitigation-
study-06jun14-en.pdf) and the Security and Stability Advisory Committee 
(SSAC) comments to that report (https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/
files/sac-066-en.pdf).

The ICANN staff has prepared a proposal taking these two documents and 
the community input into account, which was presented on Monday. From 
IETF point of view, there are some things that are significant: The 
ICANN staff has proposed to defer the delegation of .mail, .home 
and .corp indefinitely. The plan also calls for the ICANN staff to work 
within the IETF process to reserve those names. Therefore, the ICANN 
staff plans to work within the IETF on the RFC6761 related work in the 
DNSOP working group. This is quite significant as this needs 
coordination between the IETF and ICANN and it requires the ICANN staff 
persons to work in the IETF according the IETF processes. This is very 
good and welcome thing in my opinion.

The other topic is that the ICANN staff has decided to take controlled 
interruption as a mitigation technique to address collisions. The 
approach uses a certain IPv4 loopback address returned in a collisions 
situation. This allows the system administrators notice there is an 
issue in a safe manner. There is an issue with IPv6, though. IPv6 has 
only a single loopback address and therefore, it is not possible to use 
a special loopback address as with IPv4. The staff proposal includes the 
idea for the ICANN staff to come to the IETF and propose work in this 
area for IPv6.

Universal acceptance of IDNs
----------------------------
The issue of universal acceptance of IDNs has become an important topic 
in the ICANN community. The issue is that IDNs don't currently work as 
well or at all for all of the main applications of the Internet. For 
instance, mail clients and servers may not support IDNs the same way 
they support traditional domain names. ICANN will look at possibilities 
to raise awareness in this area to the relevant organizations to 
encourage them to improve the support for IDNs. I am not sure if there 
is anything for IAB/IETF on this, but it might be good for the IAB to 
see where the IAB can support or help with this area.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
========================================================
ICANN#50 meeting is ongoing (22-26 June 2014) in London, UK.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1. RSE Report
* RFC Format
The format work continues to move forward.  Prototypes have been drafted
for the HTML and XML and will be released for public viewing when there
is a prototype CSS available for the HTML.  A group of SoWs are under
development to start creating the necessary tools for the new RFC
formats (Canonical and Publication).  While there is enough information
documented to get those SoWs moving, the RFC Format Design Team and the
RSE still have quite a bit of work to do.  In particular, the team is
focused on completing the xml2rfc v3 vocabulary, establishing the PDF
requirements, and documenting the plain text output requirements.  

For the CSS work, enough people have responded to the call for
assistance to create a prototype CSS that there should be something to
demo in time for IETF 90 in Toronto.

* DOIs
A statement of work to create the necessary automation to assign and
register DOIs is under discussion with the Tools Team.  While DOIs are
greatly desired by many in the I* community, some of the requirements
CrossRef has established for their use (e.g., requiring the use of the
DOI URI's in our citation libraries for ALL documents that have DOIs,
IETF or external) have resulted in expressions of concern by members of
the Design Team (they have discussed DOIs in terms of changes needed to
the XML vocabulary to markup the DOI for each document).  Specifically,
the concern is around the CrossRef requirement to add the DOI URI to all
references that have a DOI assigned.  So far, these are not show
stoppers for the project, but they have increased the complexity of the
project overall.

* SoWs and additional projects
In addition to the SoWs for the format and DOI tools, SoWs for the RFC
Editor website and additional automation for RPC stats and metrics are
in development and will be discussed with the Tools Team in the next few
weeks.

2. RPC Report
* SLA - see http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
Based on the number of documents entering the EDIT queue (a number which
is finally dropping down to more normal levels), May should be the
lowest point for the year; we'll see an improvement in the overall SLA
stats going forward if submissions go back to their normal pattern.  The
RPC expects to be back on target within two-to three-months.

* RPC staffing
Thanks to the additional support from the IAOC to work through the
recent burst of submissions, we have a new editor that started working
with the RPC in May. In addition to processing documents, the RPC has
updated their procedures and invested in the training of their newest
editor. 

* Google Scholar and RFC metadata
In order for the canonical versions of RFCs to be included in the Google
Scholar index, specific criteria regarding metadata must be met (see
http://scholar.google.com/intl/en-US/scholar/inclusion.html).  The RPC
programmer has recently finished the necessary additions to RFC metadata
so that the canonical RFCs will be properly indexed and displayed by
Google Scholar.  These changes should be reflected within Google Scholar
as Google recrawls the site over the next few months.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


Discussion of the IETF 90 Technical Plenary was deferred to the next IAB business meeting (2 July 2014).


### 4. IP Stack Evolution Program


The IAB approved the description of the IP Stack Evolution Program. Cindy Morgan will post the Program information to the IAB website. The old IP Evolution Program page on the website will be moved to the concluded section.


Brian Trammell requested the creation of a new mailing list to use for Program discussions; Cindy will follow up and have the list created.


Brian Trammell reported that non-IAB membership in the Program will be decided after the UDP 3.5 side meeting at IETF 90.


Dave Thaler noted that the Program will also need to review the existing IP Evolution Program RFCs to see which will be relevant to list on the IP Stack Evolution Program page.


### 5. Name Resolution Program


Andrew Sullivan will draft the description of the Name Resolution Program.


### 6. C/C++ API liaison manager


Dave Thaler reported that he is still waiting for responses to some of his questions about the time commitment required for the C/C++ API liaison manager position, as many people were at the SC22 meeting last week. He expects to have more information on this in the next week, and asked that this topic be added to the agenda of the next IAB business meeting (2 July 2014).


### 7. ISE Position


The current Independent Submissions Editor contract expires on 14 February 2015. Nevil Brownlee has indicated that he is willing to continue in the position. Russ Housley will start an email thread on the IAB list about collecting community feedback on the current ISE.


Brian Trammell noted that the ISE is only one person, and asked if there is any sort of succession plan in case of emergency. Joe Hildebrand agreed to start an email thread on the IAB list to discuss this further.


### 8. ICANN NomCom Appointment 2015


The IAB discussed the IETF’s appointment to the 2015 ICANN NomCom. Eliot Lear will follow up with Russ Mundy to see if he is willing to serve another term.


Eliot Lear and Cindy Morgan will put together a timeline and draft email announcements in case a call for nominations is needed.


### 9. ECMA TC-39 Liaison


The IAB approved Matt Miller as the liaison manager for ECMA TC-39. Russ Housley will follow up with an email to iab-vote to open the 48-hour window for IAB members who were not at the meeting to state any objections.


### 10. Executive Session: RSE Position


Discussion of the RSE position was deferred to the next IAB business meeting (2 July 2014) so that the RSOC chair and IAB members of RSOC would be able to participate.


### 11. Executive Session: NTIA/IANA Stewardship Transition Steering
Committee


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion. The IAB discussed their representatives to the NTIA/IANA Stewardship Transition Steering Committee in an executive session.


