
Minutes of the 2014-03-06 IAB Business Meeting, London, England
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell


#### REGRETS


* Ross Callon
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* Kathy Brown
* Leslie Daigle
* Bob Hinden
* Jonne Soininen


### 2. Job Title


Based on the revised list of job responsibilities, the IAB changed Cindy Morgan’s title to IAB Executive Administrative Manager.


Based on the IAB’s recommendation, the IAB Chair decided to leave the IAB Executive Director position vacant.


### 3. ISOC Board Appointment


Bob Hinden briefed the IAB on the current state of the ISOC Board of Trustees. He reported that with the current turnover and the restructuring in progress, there will soon be four new board members, one of whom will be appointed by the IAB. Bob noted that the appointee’s role will not only to be to represent the IETF, but to look at all of ISOC and the role that ISOC plays in the Internet. He commented that ISOC is concerned about diversity, and is looking to have a Board with diverse points of views.


Dave Thaler asked what particular areas of expertise the IAB should look for when making their appointment. Bob Hinden replied that his priority as Board Chair is to find people interested in engaging on the current policy discussions and collaborating with the ISOC staff on the strategic direction. Bob also noted that it would be better if the ISOC BOT was balanced in terms of the segments of the Internet ecosystem being represented.


Eliot Lear asked what other issues should the IAB concern themselves with when making the appointment. Kathy Brown replied that there are three policy areas:


1. Internet governance
2. Surveillance issues
3. Deploying the infrastructure of the Internet in the developing world.


Russ Housley noted that it sounds like the IAB needs to select someone who can bring a technological perspective, but talk about it in ways that are understandable to those who do not have the same technical background.


### 4. draft-iab-iana-framework


The IAB discussed the current state of draft-iab-iana-framework. Russ Housley reported that the draft was one of the hot topics at the most recent I\* CEO meeting. There is not consensus within the I\* group on whether the document should be used simply to document the IAB’s perspective on the evolution of the protocol parameters in the IANA function, or whether numbers and names should be included as well.


The IAB agreed to lay aside further discussion of draft-iab-iana-framework for the time being.


### 5. I\* CEO meetings


Russ Housley reported that the next I\* CEO meeting is likely to immediately follow the Global Multi-stakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance. Russ and Olaf Kolkman will attend on behalf of the IAB.


The IAB discussed what would be appropriate statements coming out of that meeting. Eliot Lear suggested setting up a negotiation sheet ahead of time that binds what can be said to a previously agreed upon set of principles. Xing Li suggested compiling a list of issues, along with the IAB’s position on each issue, as well as the technical reasons for that position; he agreed to send email to the IAB in order to begin that discussion.


The principles will also be discussed during the IGOVUPDATE session during IETF 89.


