
Minutes of the 2014-11-26 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on draft-iab-iana-principles was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was not reviewed, as most open actions would be discussed later on the agenda.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 22 October 2014 and the 29 October 2014 business meetings were approved.


The minutes of the meetings held during IETF 91 remain under review. That includes:


* 9 November 2014 business meeting
* 10 November 2014 business meeting
* 11 November 2014 business meeting
* 13 November 2014 business meeting
* IETF 91 Technical Plenary


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


The IAB discussed potential topics for the IETF 92 Technical Plenary.


Mary Barnes will contact Shafi Goldwasser and ask if she is available to speak at either IETF 92 or IETF 93.


The IAB also considered a topic stemming from draft-iab-smart-object-architecture, but decided to wait for a response from Shafi Goldwasser before proceeding.


### 3. Program Output


The IAB briefly discussed how they handle output from IAB Programs. Russ Housley noted that there are two potential models:


1. Programs are treated more like IETF Working Groups, where once the  

Program has come to consensus, any changes made by the IAB would be  

considered a significant event.
2. Programs are treated more like IETF directorates, where they act in  

an advisory role to the IAB.


Ted Hardie noted that different models may be appropriate for different Programs, citing the RSOC and the IANA Evolution Program as examples where the Programs can provide guidance, but the ultimate responsibility for those functions lays with the IAB.


Further discussion was deferred to the next IAB business meeting (3 December 2014) so that Joel Halpern could participate.


### 4. draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response


Marc Blanchet reported that draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response will be going out for IETF Last Call soon. Eliot Lear will send the IAB the draft of the IAB Note that the IANA Evolution Program has produced for inclusion in the document.


### 5. draft-iab-iana-principles


Russ Housley reported that the principles have been extracted from the (now-expired) draft-iab-iana-framework document, and been re-spun into draft-iab-iana-principles. Russ asked the IAB to review the document before the next IAB business meeting (3 December 2014) to see if it is ready for community review.


### 6. draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname


The IAB discussed draft-ietf-dnsop-as112-dname. Marc Blanchet will send a message to Joel Jaeggli and let him know the IAB is fine with the IAB statement and the change request for the contact info in the document.


Ted Hardie noted that he would like to be on record as abstaining on this decision. He does not think the changes made to the document responded to all his comments, but they are separate from the question before the IAB, so he will not block publication of the document.


### 7. CSIRT / FIRST Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that several people met with Kathleen Moriarty during IETF 91 to discuss a potential workshop in conjunction with the FIRST conference being held in Berlin in June 2015. The group will put together a workshop proposal and send it to the IAB for consideration.


### 8. SEMI Workshop Update


Brian Trammell reported that invitations to the SEMI workshop were sent out on 21 November 2014. The IAB agreed to also invite Aaron Falk to the workshop, as it would be valuable to have his input as chair of the TAPS Working Group. Brian Trammell noted that the Technical Program Committee will be providing an additional review of one of the submissions that was not accepted, at the author’s request.


Brian Trammell will work with Cindy Morgan to post the accepted position papers to the SEMI Workshop page on the IAB website.


### 9. IAB Appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group


The IAB discussed the IAB appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will draft a questionnaire for the candidates and send it to the IAB for review. Russ Housley will contact the candidates and let them know that the call for feedback on the candidates will be going out soon. Noting the compressed timeline before the February ICANN meeting, the IAB decided to run the call for comments and the questionnaire procedure at the same time.


### 10. NomCom Update


Joe Hildebrand reported that the NomCom has questions for the continuing IAB members, as they are trying to do a gap analysis of the board. Joe will follow up by email with the continuing IAB members.


### 11. NETmundial Initiative


The IAB discussed the NETmundial Initiative in an Executive Session that included Alissa Cooper and Jonne Soininen.


Andrew Sullivan will work with Eliot Lear and Ted Hardie to draft a response regarding the NETmundial Initiative. Russ Housley will send a message to the I\* organizations to make it clear that the group does not act as a single entity, even though the organizations meet together regularly to improve communication amongst themselves.


### 12. IAB Appointment to the IAOC


The IAB discussed the IAB appointment to the IAOC for 2015 in an Executive Session.


### 13. IAB Appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the call for nominations for the ISOC Board of Trustees is scheduled to go out next week, and asked people to please look at the draft call for nominations text and propose any changes before the next IAB business meeting (3 December 2014).


