
Minutes of the 2014-01-08 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the poll to select a time for the IETF 89 BoF Coordination call closes on Friday, 10 January 2014.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 11 December 2013 and the 18 December 2013 IAB business meetings were approved.


### 2. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


The IAB agreed to begin IAB Last Call on draft-iab-filtering-considerations-05. Russ Housley will send the Last Call message to the IAB list.


### 3. draft-iab-cc-workshop-report


Hannes Tschofenig reported that he and Bernard Aboba are reorganizing the structure of draft-iab-cc-workshop-report, and he hopes to have an updated draft for the IAB soon.


### 4. draft-housley-crypto-alg-agility


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-housley-crypto-alg-agility as an IAB document. Joel Halpern will ask the Security Area Directors to sponsor the document as a BCP on the IETF Stream.


### 5. IAB-Stream Errata


The IAB agreed to mark errata 3828 on RFC 3532 as “Hold for Document Update.”


### 6. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


Dave Thaler and Hannes Tschofenig both reported that they are waiting to hear back from potential speakers for the Technical Plenary at IETF 89. The IAB will discuss this further at the next IAB Business Meeting.


### 7. ISOC BoT Appointment


The board discussed the IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees for 2014. Mary Barnes will contact Bob Hinden to confirm the number of appointees from the IAB for this year. Mary will also put together a proposed timeline for the appointment process for the IAB to review.


Eliot Lear asked the IAB to start an email discussion about the qualifications that will be considered during the appointment process.


### 8. NomCom Confirmation Process


Andrew Sullivan reported that a mailing list has been set up to discuss confirmation of the IESG slate once it is sent by the NomCom.


### 9. Emergency Service Program


The IAB agreed that Bernard Aboba would take over from Hannes Tschofenig as Lead of the Emergency Services Program.


### 10. JitMeet


Bernard Aboba reported that an IETF participant has recently developed a WebRTC-based conferencing program called JitMeet, and has offered to assist the IAB in testing and using it. The IAB Tools and Processes Program will experiment with JitMeet and report back to the IAB.


### 11. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Response to the request to remove CFRG
co-chair


Eliot Lear questioned whether it was necessary to discuss procedural aspects of the response in executive session. Russ Housley formally recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. Barry Leiba expressed concern that both the IAB and the IESG handle appeals in executive session too often, and unnecessarily, with an adverse effect on openness; he then left the teleconference.


The IRTF Chair presented the case and then left the teleconference. The IRTF Chair Response to the request to remove one of the CFRG co- chairs was discussed in an Executive Session.


### 12. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Russ Housley re-joined the teleconference. Marc Blanchet formally recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment was discussed in an Executive Session.


