
Minutes of the 2014-04-30 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Andrew Sullivan
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on the IAB Comments to ICANN on the Transition of NTIA’s Stewardship of the IANA Functions was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 April 2014 business meeting and the 16 April 2014 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


### 2. draft-iab-styleguide


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-styleguide-02 as an Informational RFC. Russ Housley will send a request to publish the document to the RFC Editor.


### 3. NETmundial Report


Russ Housley reported that he attended the NETmundial meeting in Brazil, along with Jari Arkko, Olaf Kolkman, and Alissa Cooper. Russ noted that during the meeting, governments participated in the same manner as any other stakeholder (e.g., going up to the microphone lines in order to speak, rather than having their own dedicated microphones), thus encouraging the multi-stakeholder model.


The non-binding outcome of the meeting, known as the NETmunidal Multistakeholder Statement, is available at: <http://netmundial.br/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/NETmundial-Multistakeholder-Document.pdf>


Eliot Lear asked whether the IAB should issue a statement about NETmundial. Several people agreed that this was a good idea. Eliot Lear agreed to draft text for the proposed IAB statement on NETmundial.


### 4. I\* CEO Meeting


Russ Housley reported on the I\* CEO meeting that was held in São Paulo, Brazil following NETmundial. During that meeting, Fadi Chehadé reported that ICANN is starting a process for improving accountability within the ICANN process. Several proposals for handling the IANA transition are under discussion.


A draft of the joint statement from the I\* CEOs reporting on the topics under discussion has been sent to the IAB for review.


### 5. IAB Retreat Agenda


The IAB reviewed the draft agenda for the 2014 IAB Retreat. Ted Hardie asked whether the “Improving IAB Programs and Workshops” should be split in to two separate topics. The IAB agreed to leave the topics together on the agenda for now and let the discussion leaders subdivide the time allotted as appropriate.


Mary Barnes noted that certain programs will require more time than others to discuss their goals for 2014. Russ Housley asked Program Leads to send him their estimated time requirements.


Cindy Morgan reported that she would send out meeting room information for the retreat as soon as it is finalized.


### 6. IETF 90 Plenary


The IAB discussed Andrew Sullivan’s revised proposal for a Technical Plenary on names. Dave Thaler asked what the overall goal of this plenary topic would be, and what should be covered in the plenary as opposed to a Working Group of BOF session. The IAB agreed to continue the discussion refining the plenary outline via email and during the IAB Retreat.


### 7. ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22


The IAB discussed the potential liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22. Dave Thaler reported that he has sent an inquiry to a possible interim liaison manager for C/C++ API and is waiting to hear back.


The IAB approved the text of the call for volunteers for the C/C++ API liaison manager position, pending edits to be agreed upon via Jabber. Russ Housley will send the call for volunteers out to the community on behalf of the IAB.


Dave Thaler proposed text for the IAB to send to ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22 regarding the possible liaison relationship. The text will be reviewed further in the IAB’s Liaison Oversight Program before being sent.


### 8. ISOC BOT Appointment


Russ Housley reported that the IESG has confirmed the IAB’s selection to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Russ is in the process of following up with all of the candidates. ISOC will announce the new board on 12 May 2014.


### 9. IAB Comments to ICANN on the Transition of NTIA’s Stewardship of the
IANA Functions


The IAB completed an e-vote and approved sending comments to ICANN regarding the “Draft Proposal, Based on Initial Community Feedback, of the Principles and Mechanisms and the Process to Develop a Proposal to Transition NTIA’s Stewardship of the IANA Functions.” The comments have also been posted on the IAB website at: [http://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2014/04/iab-response-to-20140408-20140428a.pdf](https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2014/04/iab-response-to-20140408-20140428a.pdf)


### 10. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


In an Executive Session, the IAB selected new appointees to the RFC Series Oversight Committee. Joel Halpern will follow up with all of the candidates accordingly.


