
Minutes of the 2014-07-09 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Erik Nordmark
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that this was the last scheduled IAB meeting before IETF 90.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2 July 2014 business meeting were approved.


### 2. Liaison Report


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
9 July 2014

Topics:

I. Cryptech project at IETF 90
II. Draft Routing Resilience Manifesto available for comment
III. Operators @ IETF
IV. ICANN 50 DNSSEC Workshop
V. IANA developments
VI. OECD update
VII. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
VIII. WSIS+10 High Level Review Event
IX. Internet Governance Forum (IGF)
X. Internet Society Spam Project

I. Cryptech project at IETF 90
Lucy Lynch recently wrote about the Cryptech initiative on ISOC's tech 
matters blog (http://www.internetsociety.org/blog/tech-matters/2014/07/
black-box-paradox-–-how-trust-secret-todays-internet). The Cryptech team 
has been evangelising the project and will be on hand at IETF 90 for a 
project update. The briefing will be held on Wednesday, 23 July, during 
the lunch hour in the Quebec room of the Fairmont Royal York Hotel in 
Toronto.

II. Draft Routing Resilience Manifesto available for comment
The draft of the Routing Resilience Manifesto is open for a wider 
community review. It is available on the website
http://www.routingmanifesto.org/. People are invited to provide feedback 
and suggestions and textual improvements to the document online or via 
e-mail to routingmanifesto AT isoc.org. An announcement was sent to 
various NOG mailing lists and has already received some feedback. 
Feedback from the IAB would be greatly appreciated.

After reviewing and incorporating comments by the end of August, the 
final Manifesto will be released and the work of soliciting endorsements 
from network operators will begin.

III. Operators and the IETF
The 'Operators and the IETF' survey closed on 30 June with 368 
responses, and we are now beginning to synthesise the feedback and plan 
to submit our results in time for the IETF 91 meeting.

IV. ICANN 50 DNSSEC Workshop
The Internet Society Deploy360 Programme worked with ICANN's SSAC and 
the DNSSEC Deployment Initiative to produce a very successful DNSSEC 
Workshop at ICANN 50 in London. Around 120 people participated in London 
with another 25 or so joining in remotely. Topics included case studies 
of DNSSEC deployment around Europe, key rollover/transfer challenges, a 
deep discussion of Hardware Security Modules (HSMs), a presentation by 
CloudFlare around the DNSSEC deployment challenges within a CDN (and a 
commitment to deploy DNSSEC by the end of 2014) and a series of DNSSEC/
DANE demonstrations including running code. The sessions were recorded 
and more information, links to the slides and more can be found online 
(http://wp.me/p4eijv-56p). Planning is now underway for the next DNSSEC 
Workshop at ICANN 51 in Los Angeles in October and the call for 
participation will be published publicly soon.

V. IANA developments
The Internet Society Board appointed Narelle Clark, Director of 
Operations-Deputy CEO for the Australian Communications Consumer Action 
Network (ACCAN) and Dr. Demi Getschko, CEO of the Brazilian Network 
Information Center (NIC.br), as its representatives on the NTIA/IANA 
Stewardship Transition Coordination Group [1].

The Internet Society also recently published an information document 
describing the IANA functions [2].

[1] http://www.internetsociety.org/news/narelle-clark-and-demi-getschko-
selected-internet-society-representatives-ntiaiana-stewardship
[2] http://www.internetsociety.org/doc/iana-functions-0

VI. OECD update
The Internet Society led the participation of the Internet technical 
advisory committee (ITAC) at the recent OECD meeting week of the 
Committee on Digital Economy Policy and its working parties. As a result 
of ISOC's and ITAC's efforts, the economic and social value of the Open 
Internet should be a central theme of the 2016 OECD Ministerial. Work is 
ongoing on IPv6 and on the review of the OECD Security guidelines. ITAC 
also published a new edition of its newsletter, aimed at showing 
positive examples of cooperation between policymakers and the technical 
community in the OECD context: 
https://storify.com/ITAC/itac-newsletter-n-3-june-2014/

VII. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
PING held its monthly call on 26 June 2014. An informal task force has 
also been assembled to drive the work on privacy considerations for Web 
standards. The TF will be meeting alongside IETF 90. PING also plans to 
hold a more general informal face-to-face meeting at IETF. (Details to 
be advised.) Anyone from the IETF community is welcome to participate. 
The next call will be on 31 July 2014 at UTC 16.

29 May 2014 summary: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/
2014AprJun/0022.html
26 June 2014 summary: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-
privacy/2014JulSep/0000.html

VIII. WSIS+10 High Level Review Event
The Internet Society was actively engaged in the successful adoption of 
outcome documents that review the implementation of WSIS over the past 
10 years, and offer a vision for WSIS beyond 2015 [1]. These outcome 
documents resulted from several months of multistakeholder negotiations. 
This document not only recognises the value of multistakeholder 
cooperation in achieving the goals of the WSIS, but also includes 
important wording on the value of open standards, IPv6 deployment and 
IXPs. As the WSIS+10 Review process unfolds and is shaped at the U.N. in 
New York, the Internet Society will emphasize its view that the process 
should be open and inclusive of all stakeholders, reflecting the spirit 
in Geneva.

[1] http://www.itu.int/wsis/implementation/2014/forum/inc/doc/outcome/
362828V2E.pdf

IX. Internet Governance Forum (IGF)
The IGF has launched the preparatory process for its Best Practices 
Forums (BPFs). This year, the BPFs will focus on 5 critical issues: 
spam, CERTs, local content, online child protection and meaningful 
multistakeholder mechanisms. One of the intended outcomes is a summary 
booklet or handout on each BPF, to be published after IGF 2014.

For more information: http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/open-call-to-join-
igf-best-practices-forums-preparatory-process

X. Internet Society Spam Project
The Internet Society Spam Project (http://internetsociety.org/what-we-
do/policy/combating-spam-project) conducted a very successful workshop 
in Djibouti (2 June 2014), and will be following this up with webinars 
on 25 August and 8 September 2014.

The Internet Society invites the IAB to propose a speaker from the IETF 
community for each of these webinars. For the August webinar, we are 
looking for a speaker to present on the latest work in the field in 
Latin America. For the September webinar, we are looking for a speaker 
to present on current work on DKIM, as there is significant interest in 
this topic in Africa. Additionally, we would like to invite the IAB to 
identify relevant RFCs and other informational documents to include on 
the website for the spam toolkit for unsolicited email.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–



```
Recent new working groups:
- TCP Increased Security (tcpinc)

Recently rechartered working groups:
- Domain Name System Operations (dnsop)

Current new chartering:
- Transport Services (TAPS) [Internal review]
- Time Zone Data Distribution Service (tzdist) [IESG review ends 7/10]
- Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance (dmarc) 
  [IESG review ends 7/10]

Current rechartering:
None

Pending rechartering:
None

Recently closed working groups:
None

Personnel changes:
- Marcelo Bagnulo and Tero Kivinen added as co-chairs of tcpinc.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–


#### 2.3. IRTF Liaison Report


–Begin IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- NCRG has closed.

- GAIA proposed RG is planning an additional interim meeting in 
  Cambridge on Oct 20-21 (in addition to a Dec one at ACM DEV in SF).

- Proposed DCLC RG is planning meeting in Toronto (unclear if side 
  meeting or on-the-agenda; the latter is now preferred). Proposed NFV 
  RG is planning side meeting in Toronto.
```

–End IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
====================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-comments#open-public)

Proposed Implementation of GNSO PDP Recommendations on Locking of a 
Domain Name Subject to UDRP Proceedings - Revised UDRP Rules (https://
www.icann.org/public-comments/udrp-rules-proposed-2014-05-19-en)
Reply period close: 18 Jul 2014

WHOIS Requirements and National Law Conflicts (https://www.icann.org/
public-comments/whois-conflicts-procedure-2014-05-22-en)
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Study to Evaluate Solutions for the Submission and Display of 
Internationalized Contact Data (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/
transform-dnrd-2014-06-03-en)
Reply period close: 24 Jul 2014

.NGO and .ONG Registry Services Evaluation Process Request – 
Introduction of Technical Bundling (https://www.icann.org/public-
comments/tech-bundling-2014-06-10-en)
Reply period close: 30 Jul 2014

.WED Registry Agreement Amendment - Introduction of Third Level Domain 
Sales (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/wed-amendment-2014-06-04-en)
Comment period close: 9 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 31 Jul 2014

.PARIS - Introduction of Approved Launch Program (https://www.icann.org/
public-comments/paris-alp-application-2014-06-12-en)
Comment period close: 10 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Introduction of Two-Character Domain Names in the New gTLD Namespace 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/two-char-new-gtld-2014-06-12-en)
Comment period close: 10 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 1 Aug 2014

Universal Acceptance of TLDs Draft Roadmap (https://www.icann.org/
public-comments/tld-acceptance-initiative-2014-06-18-en)
Comment period close: 18 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 8 Aug 2014

Introduction of Two-Character Domain Names for .DEALS, XN--
FJQ720A, .CITY, .XYZ, .COLLEGE, .GOP, .TRADE, .WEBCAM, .BID, 
.HEALTHCARE, .WORLD, .BAND (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/two-
char-new-gtld-2014-07-08-en)
Comment period close: 29 Jul 2014
Reply period close: 20 Aug 2014 

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
=================================

NTIA stewardship transition 
----------------------------------
The transition work is ongoing in the relative groups (including the 
IETF). The creation of the coordination groups is either finished by the 
different groups or is about to be finished. The work has been 
practically transitioned now away from ICANN.

Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory Services (EWG)
--------------------------------------------------------------------
The Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory Services (EWG) (aka WHOIS) 
has finished its work and have issued its final report. The report can 
be found from https://community.icann.org/pages/viewpage.action?
pageId=40175189
This work is related with the WEIRDS WG.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
========================================================
ICANN#51 meeting is going to be (12-16 October 2014) in Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1. RSE Report
* RFC Format
There are currently seven drafts by the Design Team, describing the
requirements and vocabulary needed to make the changes to the RFC
format.  The Design Team will be meeting in Toronto to discuss the
expected workflow in the new format world with an eye towards
documenting any missing requirements.  A small group will also be
getting together to discuss possible modifications to the errata system
as a result of the upcoming changes to the format.  The RFC Format
session on Tuesday will discuss the drafts and the timeline with the
community.

The Format FAQ, which includes links to the high-level requirements (RFC
6949), links to all the drafts, and the link to the announcement re: XML
as the canonical format, has been posted on the RFC Editor website.

Beyond the Design Team, the Tools Development Team is working on several
SoWs related to format tools.  These tools include: an xml2rfc v2 to v3
converter (which may merge with one of the other SoWs as purely a
feature enhancement request for xml2rfc v2); rfclint (a consolidated CLI
tool to handle the various automated checks done by the RFC Editor);
TextSubmissionConverter (a text-to-XML converter); and,
PublicationFormater (the creator of the various publication formats).
When the SoWs are ready, they will go out as a "family" of SoWs for
community comment.

* non-ASCII characters in RFCs
Thanks to assistance from Henrik Levkowetz and Matt Larson,
"The Use of Non-ASCII Characters in RFCs", draft-flanagan-nonascii
<http://www.ietf.org/id/draft-flanagan-nonascii-03.txt> is now
available as a UTF-8 encoded document, allowing all non-ASCII
characters to be rendered as intended in modern browsers and
text readers.  Individuals who wish to test their tools against
drafts with non-ASCII characters can work from this draft as an
example.

* IETF 90
The RSE and RFC Editor have several meetings and office hours planned 
for IETF 90, including:
* Saturday, 19 July 2014 - RSOC half-day retreat
* Monday, 21 July 2014 - RSE office hours, Errata system (side meeting),
 Tech plenary (5 minutes)
* Tuesday, 22 July 2014 - RSAG/ISEB lunch, RFC Format session
* Wednesday, 23 July 2014 - RSE office hours, WG Chairs lunch (to discuss
 EFL author support), RFC Design Team meeting
* Thursday, 24 July 2014 - RFC Editor / Stream Manager lunch

Office hours for both the RSE and ISE will be posted on the RFC Editor
website.

2. RPC Report
* SLA - see http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
The RPC is still working through the unusually large surge of documents
and document clusters from the first half of the year.  The SLA time has
not been met, but queue sizes (shown in the last graph on the reports
page) are returning to normal.

The RPC continues to train the newest editor, and looks to bring on an
additional part-time editor with the ability to flex their hours to help
combat future surges in document submissions.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


Andrew Sullivan noted that Ted Hardie sent suggested edits to the description for the IETF 90 Technical Plenary on Topology and Geography, and agreed to incorporate those changes. Andrew reported that he is still waiting to confirm the names of the speakers from ISOC and the IXmaps Project. Russ Housley noted that the printed agendas for IETF 90 are being sent to the printer on Friday; Andrew agreed to try to confirm the speaker names before the agenda goes to print.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 90


Cindy Morgan reviewed the current IAB agenda for IETF 90. She will also send a formal call for agenda items to the IAB list.


### 5. BOF Coverage at IETF 90


Erik Nordmark agreed to act as the formal IAB BOF shepherd for the Abstraction and Control of Transport Networks (ACTN) BOF. The rest of the BOFs at IETF 90 will be covered as follows:


* Delay Tolerant Networking Working Group (DTNWG): Marc Blanchet is chairing the BOF; Andrew Sullivan will cover the BOF.
* Planning for the IANA/NTIA Transition (IANAPLAN): Marc Blanchet and Andrew Sullivan are chairing the BOF.
* Use Cases for Autonomic Networking (UCAN): Andrew Sullivan will cover the BOF.
* Virtualized Network Function Pool (VNFPOOL): Xing Li will cover the BOF.
* Transport Services (TAPS): Dave Thaler and Brian Trammell will cover the BOF.
* RFC Format Model (rfcform): Russ Housley, Andrew Sullivan, and Dave Thaler will cover the IAB Session.


Ted Hardie asked if IAB members could still send in BOF reports if they are not officially signed up to cover that BOF. Dave Thaler replied that IAB members are welcome and encouraged to send reports on any BOFs they attend; the sign-up list is just to ensure that there is at least one IAB member covering each BOF.


### 6. ISE Position


Joel Halpern agreed to draft a note soliciting feedback from the community on the ISE.


### 7. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


The IAB agreed to begin IAB Last Call on draft-iab-smart-object-architecture. Russ Housley will send the Last Call message to the IAB.


### 8. Privacy and Security Program


The IAB agreed to add Richard Barnes to the Privacy and Security Program. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will coordinate to update the Program web page and mailing list.


Ted Hardie reported that the Program is close to adopting the threat model document (currently draft-barnes-pervasive-problem); Ted will coordinate with his co-authors about publishing the next revision of the draft.


### 9. IANA Evolution Program


Alexey Melnikov asked to resign from the IANA Evolution Program, as he currently lacks time to devote to that effort. The IAB agreed to remove Alexey from the Program. Cindy Morgan and Andrew Sullivan will coordinate to update the Program web page and mailing list.


### 10. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


