
Minutes of the 2014-02-05 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Hannes Tschofenig


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


##### GUESTS (for item 2 only)


* Bill Drake
* Matthew Shears


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


### 2. Tech Chat: Internet Governance Forum (IGF)


The IAB was joined by Bill Drake (International Fellow & lecturer at Media Change & Innovation Division, IPMZ, University of Zurich; Member of the Multistakeholder Advisory Group at UN Internet Governance Forum; Member of /1net Steering Committee) and Matthew Shears (Director of Global Internet Policy and Human Rights at Center for Democracy & Technology; former public Policy Director at ISOC) to talk about the Internet Governance Forum (IGF).


Bill Drake noted that the IGF was formed by the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in 2006 as a place to have a multi-stakeholder discussion on Internet governance issues [see <http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/aboutigf>].


Matthew Shears added that the IGF has a 3-part structure: 1) An advisor to the United Nations Secretary-General, 2) a Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG) that organizes program and agendas for IGF meetings, and 3) the IGF Secretariat, which currently consists of one full-time employee. The role of the advisor to the Secretary-General has been vacant for some time, which is believed to have led to the IGF’s diminished relevance in UN circles. In addition, the under-staffing of the Secretariat and financial constraints have been challenges.


Matthew Shears noted that regional IGF meetings are held, in addition to the international IGFs, and that the regional IGFs have been quite successful. IGF is working to increase remote participation in order to increase stakeholder diversity.


The IGF has a 5-year mandate. It has already been renewed once, and is currently in the process of being reviewed for another renewal. There is conflict between groups with differing opinions on the IGF; some would like to retain the status quo, others would like to expand the IGF into a more ambitious multi-stakeholder caucus on Internet governance issues that issues non-binding resolutions, and others would like to end IGF entirely and move to a decision-making body with direct intergovernmental cooperation.


Eliot Lear asked what would a worst case scenario be. Matthew Shears replied that he believed IGF would get approved, but but that he sees governments that do not participate in IGF showing a greater willingness to participate in other efforts with outcomes that are more unclear, such as the upcoming Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance being held in Brazil. Bill Drake noted that many of the IGF’s contributions are intangible; many of the benefits are in the collective learning opportunities.


Alissa Cooper asked how IGF participants view the IETF. Bill Drake replied that many IGF participants have misconceptions about the IETF, and do not understand that IETF participation is open to anyone. He noted that other IGF participants were able to correct those misconceptions when they were voiced aloud. Matthew Shears noted that Jari Arkko’s participation at the 2013 IGF in Bali was was very helpful, and that further IETF participation in the IGF would be greatly appreciated. Bill Drake added that the IETF could help mobilize people to engage in the IGF.


### 3. Meeting Minutes


The discussion of the meeting minutes was deferred to the next IAB teleconference due to time constraints.


### 4. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


The IAB discussed the Technical Plenary for IETF 89. The IAB agreed to invite Malcolm Pearson and Steve Kirsch as speakers.


Dave Thaler will issue the speaking invitation to Malcolm Pearson and Hannes Tschofenig will issue the speaking invitation to Steve Kirsch.


Alissa Cooper noted that she had additional potential speakers as a backup plan.


### 5. RIPE NCC Roundtable Meeting, 19 February, Brussels


The discussion of the RIPE NCC Roundtable Meeting was deferred to email due to time constraints.


### 6. draft-iab-iana-framework


Bernard Aboba summarized the status of draft-iab-iana-framework. The draft has recently been updated and comments have been received from a number of IANA Program members. John Klensin has suggested that the IAB consider hiring a professional editor to address document readability issues. Bernard asked the IAB to consider John’s suggestion as well as to read the document and file comments in TRAC as needed.


Bernard also noted that the IANA Evolution Program had not been meeting regularly either online or at IETF meetings, although there is mailing list traffic. An I\*Design team chartered at the last I\*CEO has been meeting regularly and the mailing list is quite active. It is up to the I\*Design team members whether they want to share those discussions with the IAB and the Program — for IANA Program participants to do so on their own would probably be considered a breach of etiquette. Currently this is not happening, so there are two disjoint discussions going on with respect to the document and IANA evolution. Since the document will be circulated for comment in several communities the IAB should expect to receive feedback through that process; however, it would be desirable for the Program to have access to feedback earlier if possible.


Bernard recommended that the IAB conduct a Program Review and consider a Program refresh along the lines of what occurred with the RFC Series Program last year. The IAB asked Bernard to forward a request to the IANA Program Chair to prepare for a Program review by the IAB at the London IETF meeting. Thursday morning was suggested as a potential day/time for the review, with the IRTF RG being moved to Tuesday. It was also suggested that the IANA Program meet in person earlier in the week as well as online between now and the IETF meeting to prepare. Bernard agreed to forward those suggestions to the IANA Program Chair.


### 7. draft-flanagan-style


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-flanagan-style into the IAB stream.


### 8. draft-levine-doi


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-levine-doi into the IAB stream.


### 9. ECMA TC-39


The discussion of the potential liaison relationship with ECMA TC-39 was deferred to the next IAB teleconference due to time constraints.


### 10. WSIS Letter Action


The IAB agreed to co-sign the WSIS letter. Eliot Lear will coordinate with Constance Bommelaer on the logistics.


### 11. Executive Session: IESG Slate Approval


The IAB moved into an Executive Session. Alissa Cooper recused herself from all discussions of the IESG slate and left the teleconference. Ross Callon recused himself from the discussion of the Routing Area Director.


The IAB confirmed the IESG slate received from the NomCom. Andrew Sullivan will notify the NomCom Chair accordingly.


