
Minutes of the 2014-03-19 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Xing Li
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on “Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of the Internet Technical Community” was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 19 February 2014 and the 2 March 2014 business meetings were approved.


The minutes of the 4 March 2014 and the 6 March 2014 business meetings remain under review.


The IAB asked Cindy Morgan to turn the transcript from the IETF 89 Technical Plenary into digest-style minutes. In addition to the minutes, a transcript will be posted to the IETF 89 Proceedings.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
19 March 2014

Topics:

 I. World IPv6 Launch measurements now showing trend data for top 10 
    networks
II. Technical community Internet Governance principles
III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
IV. IETF Policy Guests Program 
 V. Spam Toolkit set to launch in April

I. World IPv6 Launch measurements now showing trend data for top 10 
   networks
We recently published the latest network operator measurements on the 
World IPv6 Launch site (http://www.worldipv6launch.org/measurements/) 
and added a new feature whereby trend data is presented for the top 10 
networks. As we observed in our blog post announcing the new data 
(http://www.worldipv6launch.org/march-2014-ipv6-measurements-now-with-
deployment-trend-graphs-for-the-top-10-networks/), these charts present 
a compelling picture of rapid and substantial IPv6 deployment. See also:
http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/blog/2014/03/dramatic-ipv6-
growth-now-visible-via-trend-charts-on-world-ipv6-launch-measurements/

II. Technical community Internet Governance principles
The “Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members 
of the Internet Technical Community“ document was submitted as a common 
contribution to the NETmundial meeting in Brazil. To date, it has been 
endorsed by 29 organizations and 12 individuals: 

> [Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of the Internet Technical Community](https://www.internetcollaboration.org/ig-recommendations-itcg/)



III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
The W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING) held an informal face-to-face 
meeting alongside IETF89 in London. The informal summary is available 
here: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/2014JanMar/0034.html

IV. IETF Policy Guests Program
During IETF London, ISOC formally hosted 16 governments as part of its 
policy guests program. Additionally, several members of the European 
Union's High Level Internet Governance group and new members of the 
ICANN Board joined the program. This was a lively group and probably the 
most formalized program we've had to date. There is keen interest in 
getting more technical experts from developing countries to join the 
work of the IETF but also concerns about barriers to participation 
(language, culture, etc).  

Without exception, our policy guests said that their time at the IETF 
"exceeded expectations" and that they were honored that the community 
made the effort to reach out to them. Some specific feedback from our 
group is listed below.   

Feedback:
- "my job has been made easier" and "this week challenged me in a good 
  way"
- This message needs to be heard in the ITU - could we have these 
  sessions there?
- Need to bring this kind of capacity building to Ministers - need to 
  bring experts to their countries because this model still isn't well  
  understood and it is clear that it works.
- impressed by the enthusiasm of this community for the Internet - 
  "something is right here" 
- "I can be involved.  It can start now"
-  more information and opportunities to include their technical experts 
  in the work of the IETF.  They now see how important that is.
- language and acronyms may be the two biggest challenges for new 
  participants.

V. Spam Toolkit set to launch in April
The Spam Toolkit, a part of ISOC's Combating Spam Project (https://
www.internetsociety.org/what-we-do/policy/combating-spam-project), is a 
repository of information that the Internet Society is facilitating and 
developing using materials contributed by spam experts and relevant 
industry organizations. The toolkit is being assembled as a dynamic 
collection of materials that will be updated as new documents are 
contributed. The toolkit is scheduled for launch in April, and once 
launched, will be accessible at: https://www.internetsociety.org/
spamtoolkit. Chapters and members will also be asked to contribute their 
information on spam for possible inclusion in the repository. ISOC 
welcomes suggestions from the IAB for materials that would contribute to 
the repository.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–



```
Recent new working groups:
TURN Revised and Modernized (tram) [Approved on 2/21]

Recently rechartered working groups:
Network Configuration (netconf) [Approved on 2/21]

Current new chartering:
DiffServ Applied to RTP Transports (dart) [IESG review, on 3/27]

Current rechartering:
None

Pending rechartering:
NETCONF Data Modeling Language (netmod) [Informal review]

Recently closed working groups:
None

Personnel changes:
Melinda Shore was named chair of trans.
Gonzalo Camarillo and Simon Perreault were named co-chairs of tram.
Jon Hudson replaced Erik Nordmark as co-chair of trill.
Olafur Gudmundsson was named co-chair of dane.
Ondřej Sur´y stepped down as co-chair of dane.
Jeff Tantsura replaced Alia Atlas as co-chair of rtgwg.
Jeff Haas replaced Alia Atlas as co-chair of i2rs.
Ray Bellis replaced Alissa Cooper as chair of geopriv.
Sumanth Channabasappa stepped down as co-chair of drinks.
Karen Nielsen was named third co-chair of rmcat.
Luigi Iannone was named third co-chair of lisp.
Stefan Winter was named co-chair of radext.
Sean Turner was added as third co-chair of tls.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–


#### 2.3. IRTF Liaison Report


–Begin IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- Attempt to reboot the RRG continuing with breakfast meeting in London. 
  Set up rrg-reboot@irtf.org list to facilitate follow-on discussions; 
  mostly silence so far.

- GAIA ("Global Access to the Internet for All") "RG-to-be" side meeting 
  will happened in London, very well attended and got good feedback 
  after. Looking forward to next meeting (may not be at IETF but at a 
  conference.)

- Reviewed the ICCRG with the IAB in London.
```

–End IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
====================================
(All public comment processes: http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment)

IDN Variant TLDs ­ LGR Procedure Implementation ­ Maximal Starting
Repertoire Version 1 is Now Open for Public Comment
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/msr-03mar14-en.htm>

(Comment period ends at 28 March 2014)

Mitigating the Risk of DNS Namespace Collisions
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/name-collision-26feb14-en.htm>

* JAS Draft Report: Mitigating the Risk of DNS Name Space Collisions
<http://www.icann.org/en/about/staff/security/ssr/name-collision-mitigation -26feb14-en.pdf> 

* Related FAQ 
<http://www.icann.org/en/about/staff/security/ssr/name-collision-mitigation -faqs-25feb14-en.pdf>
(Comment period ends at 31 March 2014)

ICANN Strategy Panels ­ Draft Reports
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/strategy-panels-25feb14-en.htm

Comment period ends at 30 April 2014)

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
==========================================

Name collisions
---------------

The JAS paper on the name collisions is key in this process and it would
be good that IETF people could take a look at this. It comes with 11
recommendations where the first one is to reserve .corp, .home and .mail
according the RFC 6761 process. Currently at the IETF, DNSOP is looking at
that process to see how it suits todays needs.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
========================================================

Next ICANN meeting will be in March 23-27th 2014 in Singapore. Before the
meeting there is a Non-Commercial Users' Constituency workshop on Internet
Governance (Friday, March 21st). During the meeting the technical topics
that may interest IETF/IAB folks will be at least name collisions and IDN
Root Zone LGR Public Workshop. In addition, the NTIA announcement and its
consequences will be discussed during the meeting.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1.  RSE Report
* IETF 89 and the Document Language Editing session
(http://trac.tools.ietf.org/group/iesg/trac/wiki/DocumentLanguageEditing)
The Saturday immediately before IETF 89, a group of people gathered to
review four I-Ds written by authors who felt they needed assistance in
expressing their ideas in clear English.  This was the second Document
Language Editing session coordinated by the IESG, with the RFC Editor
providing some additional support.  The feedback from the authors who
participated in this session was very positive but included a concern
that Area Directors have too much on their plate to continue to
coordinate such an effort.  Similar support and concern was mentioned in
the broader IETF community.  The RSE is looking into how to expand and
modify this kind of session in to one or more efforts that will provide
long-term support to authors who find written English difficult.  Ideas
include a modified online writing lab that editors and community members
may participate in to provide feedback to specific questions,
opportunity for authors to reserve a time to work directly with
volunteers or editors at IETF meetings, and so on.  This effort must be
coordinated with both community members and the RFC Editor staff, and
will need to be an ongoing effort available to the continuing influx of
new authors to the RFC series.

* IETF 89 and the RFC Format BoF
IETF 89 included a session to review with the community the latest
activity around the changes in RFC Format.  Approximately 50 people
attended, with the focus of the session being the use of non-ASCII
characters within RFCs.  Slides for the session are available on the
IETF 89 proceedings page
(https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/89/materials.html#iab-sessions).

The feedback received during and after the session suggests people are
largely in alignment with the new format effort, but details still need
to be addressed particularly around the non-ASCII use case.  The RFC
Editor will incorporate the feedback received in the next version of the
draft.

* Future outreach targets
The RSE and the RSOC discussed ideas for future outreach targets for the
RFC Editor.  Suggested areas included:
- Document Editing sessions, revised
- Participation in the International Association of Scientific,
Technical, and Medical Publishers
- Review of the Asset Description Metadata Schema (ADMS) to see if/how
to get RFCs in the standards database for the European Commission’s ISA
Programme (Interoperability Solutions for Public Administrations)
- Participation in the Special Library Association for the library and
information science perspective
- Write article(s) for the IETF Journal
The RSOC supported this list, and the RSE will be using this as the list
of priorities for outreach efforts in 2014.

2.  RFC Production Center report
* Document surge handling continues
2014 has seen an exceptionally high number of documents moved to the RFC
Editor's active queue.  To include a note from the new reports page:
"This means 118 documents have entered the EDIT queue in the first 2
months of the year.  This is a significant number, as it means 43% of
all documents published in 2013 have already entered the EDIT queue this
year."
The IAOC has approved funds to bring on additional temporary editorial
help.  The RPC will be bringing on additional help to work through the
queue.  However, we expect it to be another 8-10 weeks before the queue
to return to normal processing times, assuming submission rates normalize.

* New stats reporting page - http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
A new consolidated reports page has been made available, replacing the
monthly PDF reports provided to the IAD.  A snapshot will be taken at
the end of each calendar year to capture this history of each year in
full.  Please take a moment to look this over and send feedback to
rfc-editor@rfc-editor.org.

* Progress on new RFC Editor Website
A demo of the new WordPress-based RFC Editor website currently under
development was shared with the RSOC at IETF 89.  The feedback was very
positive.  While this is an important project for the RFC Editor, it is
at a lower priority than the handling of the document surge mentioned above.

3.  Other items of interest
* International Association of Scientific, Technical, and Medical
Publishers Spring Conference and Innovations Seminar - 29 April - 1 May
2014, Washington DC
Heather Flanagan, RSE, and Sandy Ginoza, RPC Director, will be attending
the STM-assoc conference and seminar in Washington DC next month.  The
goal is to develop contacts within the technical publishing industry and
learn more about that industry's best current practices and how they
might be applied to the RFC Editor.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. Program Review


The IAB reviewed the IAB membership of the various Programs. Further reorganization of the Programs is on the agenda for the 2014 IAB Retreat. Cindy Morgan will update the websites and mailing lists to reflect the changes in membership.


#### 3.1. Emergency Services Program


Mary Barnes will take over as IAB Lead. Ted Hardie will join the Program.


#### 3.2. IAB Tools and Processes Program


Mary Barnes will continue as IAB Lead. Russ Housley will join the Program.


#### 3.3. IANA Evolution Program


Andrew Sullivan will take over as IAB Lead. Olaf Kolkman will continue as the non-IAB Program Chair.


#### 3.4. Internationalization Program


Andrew Sullivan will continue as IAB Lead. Joe Hildebrand will join the Program.


#### 3.5. IP Evolution Program


Marc Blanchet and Dave Thaler will continue as IAB Leads.


#### 3.6. ITU-T Coordination Program


Joel Halpern will continue as IAB Lead. The IAB will continue the discussion of whether the Program needs a second Lead via email.


#### 3.7. Liaison Oversight Program


Eliot Lear will continue as IAB Lead. Marc Blanchet will join the Program.


#### 3.8. Privacy Program


Ted Hardie will take over as IAB Lead. Mary Barnes and Brian Trammell will join the Program.


#### 3.9. RFC Editor Program: The RSOC


Since Joel Halpern, the current IAB Lead of the RFC Editor Program, was absent from the meeting, the IAB agreed to defer any leadership changes to the Program until Joel is available for the discussion. Russ Housley noted that the RSOC elects its own Chair, who is currently Alexey Melnikov.


Joe Hildebrand noted that Bernard Aboba resigned his position from the RSOC when he stepped down from the IAB. Cindy Morgan will update the RSOC web pages accordingly.


#### 3.10. Security


Ted Hardie will take over as IAB Lead. Several IAB members indicated they would support combining the Privacy and Security Programs when the IAB does the larger Program reorganization during the IAB Retreat.


### 4. Liaison Shepherds


The IAB reviewed the IAB Shepherds for the various liaison relationships, and made updates where appropriate:


* 3GPP: Mary Barnes
* Broadband Forum: Brian Trammell
* CableLabs: Brian Trammell
* ICANN Board: Andrew Sullivan
* ICANN TLG: Andrew Sullivan
* ICANN NomCom: Eliot Lear
* ICANN RSSAC: Marc Blanchet
* IEEE-SA: Russ Housley
* IEEE 802.1: Russ Housley
* ISO TC46: Dave Thaler
* ISO/IEC JTC1/SC2: Dave Thaler
* ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6: Russ Housley
* ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29: Ted Hardie
* ITU-T: Eliot Lear
* ITU-T, MPLS: Eliot Lear
* ITU-T, SG15: Eliot Lear
* M3AAWG: Eliot Lear
* Unicode: Dave Thaler
* W3C: Ted Hardie
* WIPO: No current shepherd; in the process of closing


Eliot Lear noted that there are a few liaison relationships which are still in development or being investigated, and for which liaison managers have not yet been established. The current IAB Shepherds for those potential future liaisons relationships are:


* ECMA TC39: Eliot Lear
* ISO/IEC JTC1/SC22: Dave Thaler
* ISO TC204: Russ Housley


Eliot Lear reported that he is seeking a liaison shepherd for OMA. The IAB was unsure whether the IETF has current liaison relationship with OMA, and asked Cindy Morgan to investigate. RFC 3975 describes the OMA-IETF Standardization Collaboration; however, it was believed that the IAB ended this liaison relationship a few years ago. Ted Hardie asked whether RFCs describing liaison relationships should be marked as Historic when a liaison relationship ends; the board agreed that was a good question but deferred discussion on it until a later date.


### 5. RSOC Membership


Discussion of the RSOC Membership was deferred to the next IAB Business Meeting (26 March 2014).


### 6. draft-lear-iab-itat-report


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-lear-iab-itat-report in the IAB Stream. Eliot Lear will update the document to put it in the workshop report template, and re-submit it as draft-iab-itat-report.


### 7. IAB Comments on NIST Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines Development Process (NISTIR 7977)


Ted Hardie agreed to review NIST Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines Development Process (NISTIR 7977) and make a recommendation to the IAB on a response. The deadline to provide comments is 18 April 2014.


### 8. Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of 
the Internet Technical Community


The IAB discussed whether to endorse the “Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of the Internet Technical Community” <<http://www.internetcollaboration.org/ig- recommendations-itcg/>>. Russ Housley and Cindy Morgan will start an e-vote on the topic.


Erik Nordmark asked if there is still an opportunity to comment on the text. Mat Ford replied that the document has already been submitted to the Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance <[http://www.netmundial.br/](http://www.netmundial.br/ "Netmundial")>. However, the intent was to use the same document as a contribution for future meetings (e.g. WSIS, ITU Plenipotentiary Conference), and so Mat asked the IAB to send any suggestions for wording changes to him and to the IAB list.


### 9. ISOC BOT Appointment


Discussion of the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment was deferred to the next IAB Business Meeting (26 March 2014).


