
Minutes of the 2014-09-24 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


##### GUEST


* Elizabeth Zwicky


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 91 will be held on Wednesday, 1 October 2014.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 September 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Tech Chat: Spam and Privacy in Email


Elizabeth Zwicky from Yahoo joined the IAB for a tech chat on spam and privacy in email.


### 3. IETF 91 Tech Plenary


The IAB discussed the structure of the IETF 91 Technical Plenary. Joe Hildebrand will write up a proposal for a technical topic that incorporates the discussions from both of the recent IAB tech chats, and send it to the IAB by 25 September 2014.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 91


Russ Housley briefly reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 91, and asked the IAB to send additional agenda items in via email.


Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to let her know if they will require A/V or catering services for any of their Program meetings.


### 5. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


The IETF-wide call for comment on draft-iab-smart-object-architecture ended on 24 September 2014. Dave Thaler reported that he has filed tickets for all actionable issues raised during the community review. Dave will work with Hannes Tschofenig to address those issues in a new revision of the document.


### 6. IGF MAG


The IAB noted that the process of selecting the new Internet Governance Forum’s Multi-stakeholder Advisory Group (MAG) is ongoing. There was no action for the IAB, as participation in the process is left to individuals in the Internet community.


### 7. IAB Appointment to the IAOC


Ted Hardie volunteered to coordinate the process for the IAB appointment to the IAOC for 2015.


Russ Housley asked the IAB to review the draft call for nominations for the IAB appointment to the IAOC. The current plan is to send out the call for nominations by 8 October 2014.


### 8. .arpa IANA WHOIS Data Approval


The IAB approved the WHOIS change request for .arpa. Marc Blanchet will respond to the request on behalf of the IAB.


Marc Blanchet noted that the next step would be updating the second-level domains under .arpa to match the top-level domain.


### 9. Other Business


The IAB discussed the ongoing I\* coordination efforts leading into the ITU Plenipotentiary Conference. It was reported that some countries have expressed an interest in reviewing IP address allocation policy. No IAB action is needed at this time.


