
Minutes of the 2014-02-19 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director, incoming IAB)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie (incoming IAB)
* Joe Hildebrand (incoming IAB)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Barry Leiba (IESG Liaison)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell (incoming IAB)


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Russ Housley welcomed incoming members Mary Barnes, Ted Hardie, Joe Hildebrand, and Brian Trammell to the IAB.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 15 January 2014, 5 February 2014, and 12 February 2014 IAB meetings were approved.


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 89


Dave Thaler provided the IAB with an update on the IETF 89 Technical Plenary. He has received draft slides from Steve Kirsch and a detailed outline from Malcolm Pearson; Dave asked IAB members who were interested to provide feedback. Dave is also working with Hannes Tschofenig to arrange a dinner with the speakers on Sunday evening; he asked that IAB members who would like to attend RSVP to him directly.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 89


Russ Housley reviewed the IAB agenda for IETF 89.


Eliot Lear asked if an item should be added to the agenda to address IAB Program membership and leadership. After discussion, the IAB agreed to defer this until the next teleconference after IETF 89 in order to allow more time for hallway discussions.


Eliot Lear noted that he is planning to arrange a meeting regarding the W3C relationship during IETF 89. The likely time for that meeting will be Wednesday, March 5, or Friday, March 7, 7:30am.


### 4. BOF Coverage at IETF 89


The IAB currently plans to cover BOFs at IETF 89 as follows:


* ACE: Andrew Sullivan is covering.
* DBOUND: Dave Thaler is covering. Marc Blanchet is a co-chair, and Andrew Sullivan is one of the draft authors.
* DNSE: Bernard Aboba, Andrew Sullivan, and Dave Thaler are covering.
* IGOVUPDATE: Bernard Aboba is covering. Marc Blanchet and Andrew Sullivan are co-chairing.
* RFCFORM: Mary Barnes and Andrew Sullivan are covering. Joel Halpern is the BOF shepherd.
* TAPS: Andrew Sullivan and Dave Thaler are covering. Joe Hildebrand is the BOF shepherd.
* TCMTF: Xing Li is covering.
* TRAM: Bernard Aboba and Marc Blanchet are covering.
* VNFPOOL: Joel Halpern and Erik Nordmark are covering.
* GAIA (IRTF): Eliot Lear is planning to cover, barring conflicts.


Joe Hildebrand will follow up with Spencer Dawkins about shepherding the TAPS BOF.


### 5. draft-iab-styleguide


The board agreed to begin IAB Last Call on draft-iab-styleguide, ‘RFC Style Guide.’


### 6. draft-iab-doi


The board agreed to begin IAB Last Call on draft-iab-doi, ‘Assigning Digital Object Identifiers to RFCs.’


### 7. draft-iab-rfc4441rev


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-rfc4441rev, ‘The IEEE 802/IETF Relationship,’ as an Informational RFC. Russ Housley will forward the document to the the IEEE 802 Executive Committee for their approval and ask them to provide a list of the IEEE 802 Executive Committee members at the time of approval to be added to the document during AUTH48.


### 8. IANA Evolution Program


Bernard Aboba reported that the IANA Evolution Program met via WebEx on 17 February 2014. The Program discussed draft-iab-iana-framework and agreed that this would likely still be in draft form for the Global Multi-stakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance being held in Brazil.


The Program also discussed a set of principles for the evolution of the IANA function. Eliot Lear plans to send out an updated version of the principles based on the comments received to date. The goal is to send the principles out to the community sometime in the next week. Marc Blanchet will work with the IANA Evolution to add the principles document to the IGOVUPDATE BOF agenda at IETF 89.


### 9. IAB Executive Director


The IAB discussed the future of the IAB Executive Director position, noting that Mary Barnes, the current Executive Director, will be transitioning into a voting seat on the IAB when the slate changes at IETF 89.


The IAB asked Russ Housley, Mary Barnes, and Cindy Morgan to put together an updated job description for the IAB Executive Director role. The topic will be discussed further in Executive Session on the iab-vote mailing list and at IETF 89.


### 10. IAB Chair Selection Process


Bernard Aboba agreed to serve as Selection Committee Chair for the 2014-2015 IAB Chair selection process.


### 11. Executive Session: ISOC BOT Appointment


The ISOC Board of Trustees appointment was discussed in an Executive Session.


### 12. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


