
Minutes of the 2014-04-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Russ Housley will send out a reminder about the RSOC Call for Nominations.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 19 March 2014 and the 26 March 2014 business meetings were approved.


### 2. draft-iab-rfc4441rev-08


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-rfc4441rev, ‘The IEEE 802/ IETF Relationship,’ as an Informational RFC back in February 2014. Russ Housley reported that the IEEE 802 Executive Committee has now also approved the document. Russ forwarded the document to the RFC Editor along with a note to include the names of the Executive Committee members who approved the document.


### 3. ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22 liaison relationship


Dave Thaler presented the IAB with a case for starting a liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22, noting potential overlap in work on the APIs for the C and C++ programming languages.


The IAB discussed possible liaison manager candidates, and asked Dave Thaler to reach out to a potential liaison manager for an ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22 liaison relationship.


### 4. Executive Administrative Manager Announcement


The IAB approved the text for the Executive Administrative Manager announcement. Russ Housley will send the announcement on behalf of the IAB.


### 5. Upcoming Tech Chat Schedule


The IAB agreed to adjust their meeting schedule to hold a tech chat on 16 April 2014 (Dan Wallach on e-voting). The IAB will hold regular business meetings on 9 April 2014 and 30 April 2014. Cindy Morgan will update the internal calendar accordingly.


Dave Thaler noted that he is trying to schedule a tech chat with  

Jonathan Donner on designing for mobile-centric Internet users, and is  

aiming for either 14 May 2014 or 28 May 2014.


### 6. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


Discussion of the IETF 90 Technical Plenary was deferred to the next IAB business meeting (9 April 2014).


### 7. Retreat Agenda


Russ Housley asked IAB members to send topics for discussion at the upcoming retreat to him, noting that he plans to have a draft of the agenda ready for review by the next IAB business meeting (9 April 2014).


Russ Housley asked Program Leads to think about their Program’s goals for the next 11 months and give him an estimate of how much time they will need on the agenda.


### 8. i1b.org


The IAB discussed the administration of i1b.org, which is currently hosted by Dreamhost. Russ Housley reported that he and Mary Barnes had looked at the site, and found no information that the Secretariat should not be able to access. Noting that, and that the IAOC has set up a separate site for bids that is not managed by the Secretariat, Russ asked whether AMS IT should take over the administration of i1b.org.


Joe Hildebrand expressed concern that giving control of i1b.org to the Secretariat may set a precedent that he is not entirely comfortable with. Ted Hardie asked whether the proposal was to move i1b.org to a Secretariat-managed server, or to leave it on Dreamhost with AMS IT handling the administration. Russ Housley agreed to ask AMS IT if they are still willing to maintain i1b.org if it his hosted by an external company, and report back.


### 9. RSE Hours Update


The IAB agreed to support the RSOC’s request to increase the RSE’s hours to 26 working hours per week (an increase from 20 hours per week) through the end of June 2014. Russ Housley will follow up with the IAOC to adjust the RSE’s contract and funding accordingly.


### 10. IAB Comments on NISTIR 7977


Ted Hardie sent proposed text for the IAB comments on NISTIR 7977 via email. After discussion, the IAB approved sending this text. Ted will put the text into the appropriate template and send it to the IAB Chair for posting to NIST.


### 11. Executive Session: ISOC BOT Appointment


The IAB discussed the IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an Executive Session.


