
Minutes of the 2014-03-26 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Three new items were added to the agenda shortly before the meeting began.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 4 March 2014 and the 6 March 2014 business meetings were approved.


The minutes of the IETF 89 Technical Plenary were approved pending an edit to refer to the PDF versions of the slides presented.


The transcript from the IETF 89 Technical Plenary was approved for posting to the IETF 89 Proceedings pending the addition of a line noting who had provided corrections to the transcript.


The minutes of the 19 March 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. RSOC Membership


The IAB approved the text for the Call for RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC) Nominations pending an edit to be made by Joel Halpern. Once that edit is made, Russ Housley will send the message to the community.


### 3. Upcoming Tech Chat Topics


The IAB discussed potential future tech chat topics. Eliot Lear agreed to invite Dan Wallach to speak to the IAB on voting machines and electronic voting. Dave Thaler agreed to invite Jonathan Donner to speak to the IAB on “Everybody’s Internet? Designing for Mobile-Centric Internet Users in the Developing World.”


The IAB agreed to hold a regular business meeting in lieu of a tech chat on 2 April 2014.


### 4. IETF 90 Tech Plenary


The IAB reviewed potential topics for the IETF 90 Technical Plenary. Andrew Sullivan agreed to write up a proposal for a topic on names, namespaces, and security. Joe Hildebrand, Eliot Lear, and Brian Trammell agreed to help review the proposal.


It was noted that upcoming tech chats may also be fodder for plenary topics.


### 5. Retreat Agenda


The IAB began brainstorming topics for their 2014 retreat.


Ted Hardie suggested that there should be a detailed review of the Programs to see which ones are still needed and where there are gaps. He noted that he is working on a proposal to combine the Privacy Program and the Security Program into a single Program. Andrew Sullivan suggested that the IAB may want to consider spinning the names and namespaces topics out of the IP Evolution Program.


Dave Thaler proposed a topic on the IAB identifying gaps in the IETF stack where convergence on one particular way of solving a problem would be beneficial. Ted Hardie and Brian Trammell noted that that would lead nicely into an additional topic on what “Architecture” means in the context of what the IAB can actually do.


Joe Hildebrand and Brian Trammell suggested a topic on the de-ossification of transport.


Andrew Sullivan suggested the IAB spend time at the retreat thinking about how the IAB interacts with other bodies, and how to shape those conversations. Eliot Lear noted that that would be a good topic on which to engage Kathy Brown.


Dave Thaler noted that the retreat would be co-located with LACNIC, and asked how the IAB could maximize that opportunity. Alissa Cooper noted that on the IESG side, there have been discussions about the IETF making a presentation on perpass, but that nothing is firm yet. After looking at the LACNIC agenda, the IAB wondered which sessions they would need to be registered for LACNIC in order to attend; the IAB agreed to ask Russ Housley to follow up with Andrés Piazza at LACNIC on that question. The IAB also suggested that the LACNIC social event might be a good opportunity to network.


### 6. Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of 
the Internet Technical Community


The IAB agreed to endorse “Internet Governance Observations and Recommendations from Members of the Internet Technical Community <<http://www.internetcollaboration.org/ig-recommendations-itcg/>>. Mat Ford reported that he had informed Constance Bommelaer, and that the IAB logo should be added to the website soon.


### 7. draft-iab-itat-report


The IAB agreed to begin IAB Last Call on draft-iab-itat-report pending the posting of version -01 by Eliot Lear. Once draft-iab-itat-report-01 is posted, Russ Housley will begin the IAB Last Call.


### 8. ICANN Update


Eliot Lear reported to the IAB on discussions that took place during ICANN 49. He noted that some government representatives attending the meeting reacted favorably to the recent NTIA announcement that solicited proposals to evolve the IANA functions.


Eliot Lear reported that he and Andrew attended the I\* CEO meeting, where most of the discussions revolved around WTDC. Eliot noted that there was a strong emphasis on the need for a cybersecurity strategy for developing countries, as well as an explanation of the multistakeholder model that is easy to digest.


Eliot Lear noted that Daniel Migualt, one of the IETF’s appointees to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, will be working with Jari Arkko on blog post about ICANN for the IETF Chair’s blog.


### 9. Executive Session: ISOC BOT Appointment


The IAB discussed the IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an Executive Session.


### 10. Executive Session: RSE Hours Update


The IAB discussed whether to continue the experiment increasing the RSE’s hours to 26 per week through the end of June in an Executive Session. Cindy Morgan and Russ Housley will start an e-vote on the question.


