
Minutes of the 2014-03-02 IAB Business Meeting, London, England
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll Call


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell


#### REGRETS


* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS (present through item 4 only)


* Kathy Brown
* Stephen Farrell
* Kathleen Moriarty
* Sean Turner
* Sally Wentworth


### 2. STRINT Reactions


Stephen Farrell reported on the STRINT Workshop that was held in London immediately prior to IETF 89. After discussion, the workshop participants concluded that:


* Cryptography works, but more needs to be done to raise the bar.
* Data minimization is worthwhile, but difficult to do.
* Technical people need to do a better job explaining pervasive monitoring issues to policymakers.


Stephen Farrell noted that work has started on a draft (draft-barnes-pervasive-problem) explaining the threat model. Brian Trammell noted that different communities are using different vocabularies to describe the same issues, which leads to confusion.


Stephen Farrell observed that cryptographers are working on boilerplate to describe how to turn on cryptography for web servers, and while that may not necessarily be IETF work, it would be beneficial to have IETF participation in the discussion around that.


The workshop discussed turning cryptography on by default; a small team agreed to write a draft on the topic.


Stephen Farrell will work with Rigo Wenning to produce the workshop report.


### 3. IAB Document State Changes


#### 3.1. draft-iab-doi


The IAB discussed draft-iab-doi-01, and agreed to hold off publication as an RFC until the process for assigning Digital Object Identifiers has been established.


The IAB agreed to begin assigning Digital Object Identifiers to RFCs. Russ Housley and Heather Flanagan will announce this during the IETF 89 Technical Plenary.


#### 3.2. draft-iab-styleguide


The IAB briefly reviewed comments received to date on draft-iab-styleguide-01 during the IAB Last Call. Eliot Lear asked for one more day to review before beginning the IETF-Wide Call for Comments. Heather Flanagan reported that she plans to alert the community to the forthcoming Call for Comments during the IETF 89 Technical Plenary.


#### 3.3. draft-iab-host-firewalls


Dave Thaler reviewed the comments received during the IAB Last Call on draft-iab-host-firewalls-01. Dave will update the document to address the comments received. That IAB agreed to begin IETF-wide Call for Comments on draft-iab-host-firewalls after posting a new revision of the document.


### 4. Internet Governance Update


Sally Wentworth briefed the IAB on upcoming Internet governance activities, noting that these events should not be viewed in isolation, but as an ongoing discussion.


#### 4.1. World Telecommunication Development Conference 2014 (WTDC)


The ITU will hold the WTDC from 30 March 2014 – 10 April 2014 in Dubai. The WTDC is intended to establish guidelines for defining telecommunications development questions and to set the direction of the ITU-D’s work program for the next four years. Sally Wentworth noted that many of the topics discussed will be revisited at the ITU Plenipotentiary Conference 2014 (see 4.3. below) later this year.


Sally Wentworth expects that bridging the standardization gap between developed and developing countries will be a topic of discussion. Brian Trammell asked if the IETF process has ever admitted national standards other than the national ciphers. Ross Callon replied that there are many cases of standards being brought into the IETF after already being deployed. Sally noted that there may be countries where there is not an active national standards process.


For more information: [http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Conferences/WTDC/WTDC14/Pages/default.aspx](http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Conferences/WTDC/WTDC14/Pages/default.aspx "WTDC")


#### 4.2. Global Multi-stakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet 
Governance (NETmundial)


The NETmundial meeting will be held 23-24 April 2014 in São Paulo, Brazil. Sally Wentworth reported that the goal of the meeting is to put together a roadmap for the future evolution of the Internet ecosystem. Eliot Lear asked how the Internet technical community can position itself for this meeting. Sally replied that ISOC is working on a set of principles to provide context. Kathy Brown noted that the primary goal is to find common ground. Sally Wentworth suggested that things like the OpenStand principles may make a useful contribution.


For more information: [http://netmundial.br/](http://netmundial.br/ "NETmundial")


#### 4.3. ITU Plenipotentiary Conference 2014 (Plenipot)


The ITU Plenipotentiary Conference 2014 will be held 20 October – 7 November 2014 in Busan, Korea. This is the ITU’s constitutional convention; there is talk of expanding the ITU’s jurisdiction to include Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Kathy Brown observed that the ITU has been trusted to regulate telephone networks for nearly a century, but communications technology is evolving away from the PSTN.


Eliot Lear asked what the IAB ITU-T Coordination Program can do in advance of the Plenipot. Sally Wentworth replied that ISOC is looking for help in analyzing the proposals as they come in, in order to determine where to concentrate their efforts.


For more information: [http://www.itu.int/en/plenipotentiary/2014/Pages/default.aspx](http://www.itu.int/en/plenipotentiary/2014/Pages/default.aspx "Plenipot")


### 5. IAB Chair Selection


In an executive session, the IAB selected Russ Housley as the IAB Chair for 2014-2015.


