
Minutes of the 2014-08-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Erik Nordmark
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison Manager)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reported that the draft agenda for the IETF-IEEE 802 Coordination meeting in September has been posted to the website.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 August 2014 business meeting remain under review.


The IAB agreed that unless any objections are raised in the interim, the transcript and minutes from the IETF 90 Technical Plenary will be posted to the IETF 90 Proceedings on Friday, 15 August 2014.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
12 August 2014

Topics:

I. ISOC Policy Program to IETF 90
II. Launch of the Internet Society Spam Toolkit
III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
IV. Online Communications & Confidentiality Survey
V. Internet Exchange Point Related Activities
VI. W3C Web Crypto Next Steps Workshop

I. ISOC Policy Program to IETF 90
We had another lively group of policy officials in attendance at IETF 
Toronto.  There were 16 officials from 12 countries (several governments 
have begun sending additional people on their own).  Note – since the 
program began in 2012, ISOC has hosted 98 government officials to attend 
the IETF meetings. Feedback is very strong and we are now fielding 
requests from governments to be allowed to participate.  In the case of 
Brazil, they are now sending officials to each IETF meeting as a matter 
of government policy.  This is very encouraging.   An area where we 
still need to make progress is in identifying engineers in these 
countries that are able to attend future IETF meetings and that have the 
technical background to participate in the work effectively.

II. Launch of the Internet Society Spam Toolkit
The Internet Society’s Spam Toolkit is a library and repository of 
materials, information and data that have been contributed by experts, 
industry organisations and researchers on spam.  The Toolkit is intended 
to be a living repository of information where new materials can be 
submitted for consideration at anytime. An expert committee will vet 
submitted materials before they are posted to the toolkit. The toolkit 
covers introductory materials which provide a background on spam through 
best practices and technical documents from organisations such as MAAWG. 
The Toolkit’s website is: http://www.internetsociety.org/spamtoolkit.  
ISOC invites the IAB to take a look at the website and provide 
suggestions for future improvements.

III. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
PING held two informal face-to-face meetings alongside IETF 90. The 
informal task force working on Privacy Considerations for Web Protocols 
met to discuss additions and improvements. We also held a PING and 
friends "get-together”, allowing time for broader discussion of items 
such as the privacy considerations of the Beacon API. Meeting summaries 
are available [1] [2].

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/2014JulSep/0013.html
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/2014JulSep/0023.html

IV. Online Communications & Confidentiality Survey
There are many reasons why Internet users might wish to be anonymous 
online, keep the content they are reading or sharing confidential, and 
why they may not want others to know which services they are using. To 
better understand the problem space, we are collecting information from 
Internet users that will help us gain a more complete understanding of 
their needs and expectations for confidential communications online. 
ISOC invites the IAB to participate in an online survey to help improve 
understanding of online communications, confidentiality, and user 
expectations. Take the survey now at: 
https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/confidcommunications. 

V. Internet Exchange Point (IXP) Related Activities
A brief presentation on ISOC's IXP related activities was made during 
the recent IAB  Technical plenary meeting in Toronto. More in-depth 
presentations and best practices were provided to the ISOC Policy 
fellows to facilitate our on-going efforts to educate a wide-range of 
stakeholders on the benefits and work being done around the world to 
develop and 'level-up' IXPs. The ISOC IXP Toolkit team and ISOC regional 
and technical experts are continuously obtaining data and plan to revise
both the IXP Toolkit report 
(http://www.internetsociety.org/ixptoolkitguide) and portal 
(http://www.ixptoolkit.org), including field-testing our IXP methodology
contained in the IXP Toolkit. Feedback on the IXP Toolkit and Portal are
welcome via feedback@ixptoolkit.org

VI. W3C Web Crypto Next Steps Workshop
The W3C Web Crypto Next Steps workshop is planned for 10-11 September 
2014 in Mountain View, California. The workshop plans to discuss web 
crypto, authentication and hardware tokens with a goal of producing the 
draft charter for continued work in the W3C Web Crypto WG. The program 
committee has prepared the agenda and invitations based on a paper 
submission and review process. There are a few remaining seats available 
and interested parties are instructed to send a statement of interest to 
the workshop co-chairs: Harry Halpin (hhalpin@w3.org) and Virginie
Galindo (Virginie.Galindo@gemalto.com). The details including the agenda
are available at: 
http://www.w3.org/2012/webcrypto/webcrypto-next-workshop/Overview.html.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–



```
Recent new working groups:
- Time Zone Data Distribution Service (tzdist)
- Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance (dmarc)

Recently rechartered working groups:
- Dynamic Host Configuration (dhc)

Current new chartering:
- Transport Services (taps) [External review]
- Calendaring Extensions (calext) [External review]

Current rechartering:
None

Pending rechartering:
None

Recently closed working groups:
None

Personnel changes:
- Alexey Melnikov replaced Salvatore Loreto as appsawg co-chair.
- Eric Rescorla stepped down as co-chair of tls.
- Sam Hartman and Josh Howlett replaced by Benjamin Kaduk and Matt 
  Miller as kitten co-chairs.
- Terry Manderson stepped down as lisp co-chair.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–


#### 2.3. IRTF Liaison Report


–Begin IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- Discussing IRTF meeting style experiment in Honolulu (or at a later 
  IETF)
```

–End IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–


Lars Eggert noted that the proposed meeting style experiment would  

affect the experience for remote participants, but added that most  

Research Groups do not have many remote participants in the first  

place. Ted Hardie suggested contacting Emil Ivov from Jitsi regarding  

some of the WebRTC-based remote participation solutions.


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights) 
====================================
(All public comment processes: 
https://www.icann.org/public-comments#open-public)

Introduction of Two-Character Domain Names for .DEALS, XN--
FJQ720A, .CITY, .XYZ, .COLLEGE, .GOP, .TRADE, .WEBCAM, .BID, 
.HEALTHCARE, .WORLD, .BAND 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/two-char-new-gtld-2014-07-08-en)
Reply period closes: 20 Aug 2014

Introduction of Two-Character Domain Names for .LUXURY, .WANG, 
XN--3BST00M, XN--6QQ986B3XL, XN--CZRU2D, 
XN--45Q11C, .BUILD, .REN, .PIZZA, .RESTAURANT, .GIFTS, .SARL, 
XN--55QX5D, XN--IO0A7I, and 20 TLDs associated with Top Level Domain 
Holdings Limited 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/two-char-new-gtld-2014-07-23-en)
Comment period closes: 13 Aug 2014
Reply period closes: 4 Sep 2014 

II. Important events
=================================

Offering compensation to the ICANN Board Liaisons
---------------------------------------------------------------
The ICANN board has decided to offer compensation to the ICANN board 
liaisons. The compensation is $45,000 per year.

This offer has now been made to the IETF Liaison to the ICANN board.

Action to IAB: Give guidance to the Liaison what to do vs the 
compensation

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance 
========================================================

ICANN board workshop in Istanbul after the IGF
ICANN#51 meeting is going to be (12-16 October 2014) in Los Angeles, CA, USA.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


Jonne Soininen will find out the deadline to respond to ICANN’s offer  

of compensation to board liaisons. The IAB will discuss this topic  

further in an executive session.


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1. RSE Report
* RFC Format
With the various specific topic drafts well underway, the next steps for
the RFC Format Design Team are to create the framework draft that will
describe how everything comes together for these format changes (Heather
Flanagan holds the pen) and to build a detailed examples draft that will
show authors how to do things (e.g., markup for tables, figures, code,
etc.) in whatever version they are using AND to show how things are
changing between v2 and v3, to inform a converter on what it should do.

The Security Directorate has offered to review the full set of drafts
when the framework draft is complete, and at least two more GenART
reviews will be requested as documents reach a more finished state.
Currently undergoing a GenART review: "SVG Drawings for RFCs: SVG 1.2
RFC",  draft-brownlee-svg-rfc-07

* Digital Preservation Considerations
Changes in how we archive RFCs (currently printing them out to paper and
keeping backups on disk) should be considered as we create more advanced
digital documents in the future.  An early draft, not yet posted to the
Datatracker, on that topic is out for discussion with members of the
Special Library Association community and other librarians in the
digital archive field.  This proto-draft will in turn go to the RSAG for
discussion, then posted to the Datatracker to start general community input.

* IETF 90 read out
IETF 90 was both busy and productive.  From the RSOC retreat on
Saturday, during which the RSOC discussed strategic and long-term issues
such as marketing and branding, to several side meetings with members of
the RFC Format Design Team, on topics ranging from markup for non-ASCII
characters to workflow considerations for RFC creation, the face time
was extremely valuable.

One item of particular interest to many was the WG Chairs lunch, where
the main topic was EFL author support.  We discussed what the RFC Editor
has observed in recent years and how the RPC might be able to help EFL
authors in the future.  The open mic period led to intense discussion on
the challenges of verbal presentations in WG sessions, either by authors
with strong accents or commentators at the mic with strong accents.  At
the end of the meeting, a few specific ideas were proposed, including
moving a copy of the RFC Editor Tips and Tricks style sheet to the WG
chairs wiki for WG chairs to edit with their own advice in the future,
additional language editing sessions with document shepherds rather than
ADs, and several more ideas.  The notes and slides from the session are
available on the edu team wiki:
http://wiki.tools.ietf.org/group/edu/wiki/IETF90

2. RPC Report
* SLA - see http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
SLA times, while not "in the green" yet, are moving back in the proper
direction.  July showed a definite upturn in terms of number of
documents that met the SLA.  A letter indicating understanding and
acceptance of the Stream Managers regarding the missed SLA times for the
year was created by AMS and will be kept on record.  A copy of this note
was forwarded to the IAB.

* Subpoena
The RPC responded to a subpoena request
<http://iaoc.ietf.org/documents/Straightpath-Samsung-Subpoena.pdf>.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IETF 91 Tech Plenary


Joe Hildebrand reported that he expects to have confirmation whether Peter Saint-Andre is available for the IETF 91 Technical Plenary by the end of this week.


### 4. IGF


Jari Arkko reported that he is preparing for IGF, including the high-level meeting on 1 September where participants will outline their agendas for the week. Jari will start an email thread on the IAB list to discuss the IAB’s messaging for IGF.


### 5. Name Resolution Program


The IAB discussed the current draft of the Name Resolution Program description. Joe Hildebrand and Eliot Lear will send proposed updates to the text to Andrew Sullivan for incorporation in the next revision.


### 6. IP Stack Evolution Program


The IAB agreed to sponsor a workshop on Stack Evolution in a Middlebox Internet. A draft Call for Papers is under review on the IAB mailing list. Brian Trammell will contact the IETF Transport Area Directors to see if they are interested in co-sponsoring the workshop.


Brian Trammell will start an email thread to approve new members of the IP Stack Evolution Program.


### 7. draft-iab-smart-object-architecture


Dave Thaler and Hannes Tschofenig will update draft-iab-smart-object-architecture based on the comments received during IAB Last Call. Once draft-iab-smart-object-architecture-05 is posted, Russ Housley will begin an IETF Call for Comments on the document.


### 8. IANA Whois Change Requests


The IAB agreed to deny the existing whois record change requests. Marc Blanchet will send a new request to IANA on behalf of the IAB, asking to update the sponsoring organization, administrative contact, and technical contact information for .arpa. Russ Housley will send a separate note to Elise Gerich and Michelle Cotton to explain the reason behind the changes.


### 9. I\* Plenipotentiary Coordination


Eliot Lear reported that he is participating in the ISOC email list for I\* coordination regarding the upcoming ITU Plenipotentiary conference. Eliot will liaise back with the ITU-T Coordination Program as needed.


### 10. Executive Session: Liaison Compensation


The IAB discussed compensation of IETF Liaisons in an executive session. The Liaison Coordination Program will draft a policy declaring that IETF Liaisons should not accept compensation (excluding travel expenses) from the organizations with which they are liaising.


