
Minutes of the 2014-05-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Mary Barnes
* Joel Halpern
* Xing Li
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Eliot Lear asked for IAB volunteers to join the Liaison Oversight Program. He asked that this be kept on the agenda until there is a volunteer in place.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 30 April 2014 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Liaison Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
13 May 2014

Topics:

 I. NETmundial
II. CSTD WG on Enhanced Cooperation
III. IETF Policy Program
IV. ITU Plenipotentiary Conference
 V. Combating Spam Project
VI. Routing Resilience Manifesto

I. NETmundial
In ISOC’s view, NETmundial was a very positive, useful meeting that has 
re-energized the multi-stakeholder Internet governance process. This was 
one meeting in the broader context of Internet governance but we are 
hopeful that it has helped build momentum for the upcoming IGF and, in 
general, gives greater confidence to stakeholders that productive policy 
dialogue can take place in an open and inclusive setting. Kathy Brown’s 
reflections on the results of NETmundial may be found here: http://
www.internetsociety.org/blog/institutional/2014/04/netmundial-
variations-theme-multistakeholder-consensus-building-action

II. CSTD WG on Enhanced Cooperation
The fourth meeting of the Working Group was held in Geneva from 30 April 
to 1 May. The mandate of the WG was set by the UN General Assembly: "to 
examine the mandate of the WSIS regarding Enhanced Cooperation as 
contained in the Tunis Agenda (…) and to make recommendations on how to 
fully implement this mandate." Constance Bommelaer participated on 
behalf of the academic and technical communities. There were still 
remaining divergences mainly with regards to the scope of “Enhanced 
Cooperation” (among governments only vs. among all stakeholders). The 
Chair plans to request an extension of the mandate of the group to the 
CSTD in order to continue working on recommendations throughout 2014.

III. IETF Policy Program
ISOC will have another large, diverse group of policymakers at IETF 90 
in Toronto.  Topics on our policy agenda will include IP addressing, DNS 
overview, interconnection, and emergency services. We are expecting 
policymakers from the following countries and organisations to 
participate: African Telecom Union, Panama, Jamaica, Vietnam, Egypt 
(x2), Argentina (x2), Bahrain, Oman, Grenada, Caribbean Telecom Union, 
Mexico (x2), India, Korea, Paraguay and Brazil.

IV. ITU Plenipotentiary Conference
Sally Wentworth will be ISOC’s Head of Delegation to the ITU Plenipot in 
Busan. In the coming weeks and months, ISOC’s preparations will have 3 
main components:

  1) substantive analysis and positioning – what do we want/not want to 
     happen at Plenipot? What proposals and positions are coming 
     forward?
  2) Advocacy in key countries – roadmap of countries where advocacy is 
     likely to be most useful;
  3) Mobilization – outreach via ISOC community and partners.

The ISOC delegation will want to work closely with the IAB in areas 
where technical interests are clearly at stake. Understanding and 
articulating the technical implications of certain proposals will be key 
to our overall approach.

V. Combating Spam Project 
The project has moved from its initial phase of outreach to policy 
makers to phase two, which is engagement with both policy makers and 
technical communities in developing countries. It would be welcome if 
IETF and IAB leadership are able to identify experts who would be able 
to participate in workshops to explain the work of the IETF on email 
authentication and other network management topics that would be useful 
for efforts within developing countries to address their issues with 
spam management.

VI. Routing Resilience Manifesto
ISOC is coordinating work among a small group of network operators on a 
document called Routing Resilience Manifesto. The objective of this work 
is to raise awareness and encourage actions by demonstrating commitment 
of the growing group of supporters. Another goal is to demonstrate 
industry ability to address complex issues related to Internet security 
and resilience. The document contains a set of principles and concrete 
actions, defining a minimum package of measures related to BGP 
filtering, anti-spoofing, collaboration and cooperation. After being 
vetted by a wider operational community, the Manifesto will be made 
available online along with a list of network operator endorsements.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


Mat Ford asked if the IAB would find it helpful to invite Constance Bommelaer to join the next IAB meeting to discuss IGF. The IAB agreed this would be useful; Mat will invite Constance to join the IAB business meeting on 28 May 2014.


Ted Hardie asked if ISOC was looking for more security people to participate in the Routing Resilience project. Andrei Robachevsky is coordinating this on ISOC’s side; Mat Ford will contact Andrei about possible IAB input into the project. Eliot Lear suggested this may be fodder for a future IAB tech chat.


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–



```
Recent new working groups:
  DiffServ Applied to RTP Transports (dart)

Recently rechartered working groups:
  - NETCONF Data Modeling Language (netmod)
  - JavaScript Object Notation (json)

Current new chartering:
  - Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ace)
    [Internal review ends 5/15]

Current rechartering:
  - SIP Recording (sip) [Internal review ends 5/15]
  - Domain Name System Operations (dnsop) [Internal review ends 5/15]
  - Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (alto) [Internal review ends 
    5/15]

Pending rechartering:
  - None

Recently closed working groups:
  - SPF Update (spfbis)
  - Network Endpoint Assessment (nea)

Personnel changes:
  - Sean Turner replaced Magnus Westerlund as RTCWEB co-chair.
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alissa Cooper–


#### 2.3. IRTF Liaison Report


–Begin IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- Attempt to reboot the RRG not on a good track. Will wait until the BOF 
  deadline for any last minute life signs, but otherwise close.

- GAIA ("Global Access to the Internet for All") "RG-to-be" not planning 
  further meetings at IETFs in 2014, but will meet co-located with ACM 
  DEV (http://dev5.acmdev.org) 

- ANRP 2015 nominations cycle started

- ANRP 2014 prize winners for IETF-90 announced

- CFRG will have chair changes (one stepping down, one retiring in 
  2015); looking for replacements now
```

–End IRTF Liaison Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
====================================
(All public comment processes: http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment)

Board Member Compensation - compensating also liaisons
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/bylaws-amend-compensation-02may14-en.htm>
Comment period end: 23 May 2014
Reply period end: 12 June 2014

Enhancing ICANN Accountability
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/enhancing-accountability-06may14-en.htm>
Comment period ends: 27 May 2014
Reply period ends: 18 June 2014 [23:59]

ICANN Draft Five-Year Strategic Plan (FY16 ­ FY20)
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/stratplan-draft-09apr14-en.htm>

Comment period ends: 31 May 2014

Interim Report Internationalized Registration Data Expert Working Group
<http://www.icann.org/en/news/public-comment/ird-interim-14apr14-en.htm>
Reply period ends: 27 May 2014

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
==========================================

ICANN Board Liaison compensation
--------------------------------

ICANN board has been contemplating if the Board liaisons should be 
compensated. All other board members (chair, normal members) are 
currently compensated and therefore, ICANN board feels that the lack of 
board liaison compensation is not justified. There is a certain logic to 
this. The compensation is voluntary. The only liaison position that is 
outside the compensation discussion is the Governmental Advisory Council 
(GAC) liaison. This is due to the GAC bylaws. Though this may seem like 
an ICANN internal matter, this would change the characteristics of the 
IETF liaison significantly. This would be a compensated position in the 
IETF realm.

Jonne Soininen believes IAB should think about this very carefully and 
provide comments to ICANN. He personally thinks this is a very big 
change and the decision should not be done lightly. Though, the IETF 
liaison is an ICANN board member the position is selected by the IAB 
from the IETF community. The potential compensation may convey people's 
interest to this position in a wrong way and may also change the 
sentiment to ICANN in a negative way within the IETF community. Though, 
this may seem like an administrative issue Jonne hopes the IAB would pay 
close attention to this. The comment period ends by May 23rd.

Enhancing ICANN's accountability
--------------------------------

As described in a separate mail the comment period for Enhancing ICANN's
accountability is ongoing. The comment period ends May 27th.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
========================================================

Next ICANN meeting is ICANN#50 (22-26 June 2014) in London, UK.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


The IAB discussed ICANN’s proposal to compensate Board liaisons. It was noted that ICANN uses the word “liaison” differently from the IETF, treating liaisons as non-voting Board members. This raised questions about the ICANN liaison’s responsibilities to ICANN versus their responsibilities to the IETF. Russ Housley will contact Jorge Contreras to seek clarification and report back to the IAB via email.


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
1. RSE Report
* RFC Format
Two of the Design Team drafts are functionally complete: the xml2rfc v2
vocabulary and the SVG profile.  There continues to be active
conversation on the the rfc-interest list regarding the specification of
the v3 vocabulary, and the first v3 prototype draft is almost complete.
A version of draft-hildebrand-html-rfc is being used to create a v2,
v3, and HTML prototype for the Tools Team (and others) to use as a basis
for understanding the changes underway in the Series.

The non-ASCII guidance draft is also being turned into a prototype for
the HTML publication format as described in draft-hildebrand-html-rfc,
and will be posted on the RFC Editor website as style guidance to be
tested by the RFC Editor for formal inclusion into a future RFC Style Guide.

The next urgent area for exploration will be the CSS that will be used
with the new HTML publication format.  A note will go out later this
week requesting designs and feedback from the community.

* IETF 90 and the WG Chairs lunch
The WG Chairs lunch at IETF 90 will focus on how to better support ESL
authors.  The RFC Editor will participate through a report out on the
Document Editing sessions held at IETF 89 and IETF 87, and offer ideas
for future ways to improve supports for authors who find written English
challenging.

* International Association of Scientific, Technical, and Medical
Publishers Spring Conference and Innovation Workshop
The STM conference and workshop, held in Washington DC from April 29
through May 1, provided interesting insights into the changing
expectations of authors in terms of how authors want to be recognized
and cited, and how their research and research data is published and
indexed.  There was a strong focus on the need for rich metadata for
both articles and any associated data sets, and several lively panels on
curating information for future use.

A trip report has been sent to the RSOC.

* Upcoming events
- "IETF Update - What's hot?", Terena Networking Conference 2014:
Heather Flanagan will be reporting out to this community on the upcoming
changes to the RFC series.

2. RPC Report
* Additional editors - status report
AMS welcomes Ann Cerveny as the newest member of the RFC Production
Center team.

* Stats and Metrics - Highlights
see: http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
-- Summary: the RPC continues to catch up on the larger-than-normal
burst of submissions in 2014.   64% of the documents that moved into
EDIT [1] in 2013 have already been released to EDIT in the first 4
months of 2014.  Assuming the rate at which documents are moving to EDIT
drops back to a more normal level (it remains higher than average), it
will take another two months to work through the backlog and return to
expected SLA numbers.

[1] EDIT = Documents awaiting editing or being edited; this includes
documents approved for publication that do not need to be held waiting
for a normative reference (MISSREF) and those being released from MISSREF
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


Andrew Sullivan sent an updated proposal for the IETF 90 Technical Plenary via email. The IAB agreed that Andrew should proceed with approaching potential speakers.


### 4. IAB Programs


#### 4.1 Closed and Dormant Programs


Cindy Morgan asked how the IAB would like to handle the web pages for closed and dormant IAB Programs. After discussion, the IAB agreed that the web pages should be kept active, but the closed and dormant Program pages should be updated to indicate that there are no current work items or deliverables. Cindy asked all Program Leads to review their web pages and let her know of any updates that need to be made.


#### 4.2 Recruitment for Existing Programs


The IAB discussed how to handle recruitment for the newly combined Privacy and Security Program. Ted Hardie suggested sending a call for volunteers to the members of the current Programs, as well as the SAAG and PERPASS lists and other external lists. He noted that since there is a lot of work to be done, it would be useful to have a separate email list to coordinate the call for volunteers. Alissa Cooper suggested that Ted ask volunteers provide a statement of interest to help screen applicants.


Eliot Lear asked what the volunteers will be doing. Ted Hardie replied that he is hoping to identify area leads within the Program, and have those leads work on recruiting volunteers to work on the specific deliverables within that area.


Ted Hardie will work with Cindy Morgan to set up the new mailing lists for the Privacy and Security Program.


### 5. Document status


#### 5.1. draft-iab-filtering-considerations-06


Alissa Cooper reported that Olaf Kolkman is still going through the comments received on draft-iab-filtering-considerations. She indicated that all three of the document authors are currently strapped for time. Dave Thaler offered to look for people to help with this.


#### 5.2. draft-iab-cc-workshop-report-01


The community review of draft-iab-cc-workshop-report ended on 14 May 2014. Lars Eggert agreed to update the document based on the comments received.


#### 5.3. draft-iab-itat-report-02


The community review of draft-iab-itat-report will end on 16 May 2014. Eliot Lear reported that he plans to have an updated version of the document that addresses comments received by the end of next week. Russ Housley requested that the approval of this document be added to the agenda of the IAB business meeting on 28 May 2014.


#### 5.4. draft-iab-strint-report-00


Marc Blanchet reported that draft-iab-strint-report is currently being reviewed by the workshop attendees, and that a new revision is expected sometime in the next few weeks.


Dave Thaler noted that the appropriate workshop boilerplate text needs to be added to the document.


### 6. IAB Liaison to the 2014-2015 NomCom


The board discussed the selection of the IAB Liaison to the 2014-2015 NomCom. Since several of the eligible volunteers were not at this meeting, Russ Housley will start an email thread on this topic.


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


