
Minutes of the 2014-10-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 91 will be held immediately following the IAB meeting.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 September 2014 business meeting were approved.


The minutes of the 24 September 2014 tech chat and business meeting remain under review. Eliot Lear agreed to propose updated text for the last item in the minutes.


### 2. IETF 91 IAB Plenary


The IAB discussed the IETF 91 Technical Plenary. After a lengthy discussion, the IAB agreed that the recent tech chats on efforts to increase encryption in XMPP and email would not be enough to make a cohesive technical topic that would engage the IETF community during a plenary session. The IAB agreed to not have a technical topic as part of the IAB plenary at IETF 91.


Russ Housley will contact the Secretariat and ask that the time allotted for the IAB plenary be reduced to one hour. In addition to the regular reporting, the IAB plenary will highlight the new efforts in the Privacy and Security Program and the IP Stack Evolution Program.


The IAB will continue discussions on how to improve future plenary sessions.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 91


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 91.


Dave Thaler and Mat Ford suggested inviting Olaf Kolkman to the Sunday afternoon meeting to discuss ways the IAB and ISOC can coordinate on future technical plenary topics. Eliot Lear suggested adding an item on the proposed Evolution of Messaging workshop. Marc Blanchet suggested that IANAPLAN might be a good topic for the joint session with the IESG.


Cindy Morgan will update the agenda on the internal wiki accordingly.


### 4. Report from IAB/IESG/IEEE 802 ExCom Meeting


Members from the IAB, IESG, and IEEE 802 Executive Committee met in Newark, New Jersey on 29 September 2014.


Russ Housley reported that the group discussed whether it was necessary to continue having face-to-face meetings now that the teleconferences are in place; the general opinion in the room was that the in-person meetings are valuable for building the relationships. No decision has been made yet as to when or where the next face-to-face meeting will be.


The agenda covered several topics, including the proposed work on Deterministic Networking in the IETF Internet Area, in conjunction with the IEEE 802.1 TSN Task Group.


The possibility of a joint IAB / IEEE 802 workshop in 2015 on privacy was raised.


Formal minutes from this session will be published.


### 5. IAB Appointment to the IAOC


The IAB reviewed the draft call for nominations for the IAB appointment to the IAOC. Russ Housley will update the text based on comments from Ted Hardie and Eliot Lear. The current plan is to send out the call for nominations by 8 October 2014.


### 6. Lawsuit


Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, and Joe Hildebrand recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference.


Russ Housley reported that the IETF and ISOC have been named in a lawsuit; the details are available on the IAOC website [1]. ISOC and the IETF have filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit [2].


Attorneys have advised that ISOC and the IETF management (IAB, IESG, IAOC) not engage in any dialogue on this topic while the case is active.


[1] <https://iaoc.ietf.org/documents/Glassey-Microsemi-Complaint.pdf>  

[2] <https://iaoc.ietf.org/documents/FiledMTDandProposedOrder73.pdf>


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


