
Minutes of the 2014-03-04 IAB Business Meeting, London, England
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### PRESENT


* Bernard Aboba
* Mary Barnes (IAB Executive Director)
* Marc Blanchet
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Assistant)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell


#### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ross Callon
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Hannes Tschofenig


#### GUESTS


* David Ros
* Michael Welzl


### 2. IRTF Review: Internet Congestion Control Research Group (ICCRG)


Michael Welzel and David Ros, co-chairs of the IRTF’s Internet Congestion Control Research Group (ICCRG), gave an overview of the RG’s activities. Michael noted that the group began in the 1990s after realizing that something was needed beyond standard TCP congestion control. The ICCRG has three operation models. In one case, proposals are sent from the IETF to the ICCRG and moved back to the IETF when they are ready. In another case, the work comes to the ICCRG first and then moves into the IETF. In the final case, work comes into the ICCRG and remains there.


Eliot Lear asked about the mix of academia and industry participating in the Research Group. Michael Welzl replied that the current mix is working well; the group is still pushing out papers. Xing Li asked for a list of the published papers; Michael agreed to put that together.


Michael Welzl noted that while the ICCRG has not published many RFCs, the Research Group has been actively reviewing drafts before they get sent to the IETF. Since IETF 80, the ICCRG has reviewed drafts that were ultimately adopted in the AQM, MPTCP, RMCAT, and TCPM Working Groups.


Andrew Sullivan asked if the ICCRG could be used as a model for other IETF/IRTF interactions. Lars Eggert replied that the IRTF has several RGs that feed into the IETF in a similar manner, although there are not currently any RGs moving work into the Applications and Routing Areas.


Ted Hardie asked if there are ways of experimenting with congestion control without having to change the UDP version, and asked about other deployments of UDP that came through the ICCRG. Michael Welzl replied that RMCAT initially came through the ICCRG.


Ted Hardie noted that the pipeline into the Transport Area is clear when talking about TCP, and asked what could be done to smooth the transition for UDP on the Applications side. Lars Eggert replied that he expects that question to be a long-term ongoing issue.


Brian Trammell observed that UDP is now really at layer 3.5 of the stack. Ted Hardie asked if the ICCRG has ever presented in the Applications Area Working Group (APPSAWG). Michael Welzl replied that they have not, but that the TAPS BOF being held later in the week during IETF 89 may address some of the same concerns. Joe Hildebrand and Brian Trammell agreed to talk more offline about the idea of UDP at layer 3.5; the topic will be added to the IAB’s 2014 Retreat agenda.


### 3. Appointment of Liaison to the IESG


The IAB appointed Mary Barnes as the IAB’s Liaison to the IESG. The IAB thanked Joel Halpern for his service in this role for the past two years.


### 4. IAB Exec Director Appointment


The IAB Executive Director Appointment was discussed in an Executive Session.


