
Minutes of the 2014-08-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)  

Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)  

Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)  

Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)  

Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the IAB Last Call on draft-iab-smart-object-architecture ends on 7 August 2014.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 July 2014 and the 20 July 2014 business meetings were approved. The IETF 90 Technical Plenary transcript remains under review.


### 2. Upcoming Tech Plenaries & Tech Chats


The IAB discussed different ways of handling upcoming technical plenaries, including using the ANRP winners as technical speakers, and coordinating with ISOC on a technical topic (in lieu of the current ISOC lunch session).


Mary Barnes noted that the technical plenaries are the IAB’s opportunity to remind the community what it is that the IAB does, and that the IAB cannot forgo reporting in favor of a longer technical topic organized by someone else.


Brian Trammell suggested that the IAB may want to increase the reporting time for Programs, just to give some visibility into what the IAB does. Russ Housley suggested a model where one Program is highlighted at each plenary with a longer report, with the bulk of the Program reports remaining in the backup slides.


Russ Housley reported that there was interest in a technical topic at IETF 91 on what has been done in the past year to address the Snowden revelations on privacy and security. Brian Trammell noted that there is work on this in the IAB’s Privacy and Security Program, as well as in the wider IETF (e.g., TCPINC). Eliot Lear suggested that Peter Saint-Andre might be able to give a wider industry perspective on XMPP’s efforts to move to all-TLS. The IAB agreed to pursue this topic further to see if they can gain traction for IETF 91. Joe Hildebrand will contact Peter Saint-Andre and see if he is available for the IETF 91 Technical Plenary.


### 3. IGF


Ted Hardie reported that the panel he had been invited to speak on will not be happening, so he will not be traveling to IGF as originally planned.


### 4. I\* Leaders Meeting in September


Russ Housley reported that the next I\* Leaders meeting is scheduled for the Wednesday lunch slot during IGF. Andrew Sullivan will be joining Russ at this meeting.


Russ Housley noted that he expects the agenda to focus on the IANA stewardship transition, and the upcoming ITU Plenipotentiary Conference. Russ will follow up with Kathy Brown regarding the agenda.


### 5. IANA Whois Change Requests


The IAB discussed requests from IANA to update contact information for a number of sub-TLDs under .arpa, noting that with the ongoing IANA stewardship transition, having any of the contact information point to IANA may become problematic. Marc Blanchet will draft a revised proposal in response to the IANA whois change requests, and send it to the IAB for review.


### 6. C/C++ API liaison manager


The IAB agreed to proceed informally with the ISO/IEC JTC1/SC22 (C/C++ APIs) relationship, and to not appoint a liaison manager. Dave Thaler will subscribe to the relevant mailing lists.


### 7. NomCom Update


Joe Hildebrand asked the IAB to consider questions they would like the NomCom to ask IAB candidates. Russ Housley noted that candidates should be asked which IAB Programs are important to them, and how they would contribute to those Programs.


### 8. Executive Session: RFC Independent Submissions Editor Next Steps


Noting that the feedback from the community on Nevil Brownlee as the RFC Independent Submissions Editor (ISE) has been very favorable, the IAB agreed to request that the IAOC proceed to contract with Nevil to continue as ISE for two more years.


### 9. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


Marc Blanchet recused himself from the discussion.


The IAB selected John Levine as the IETF’s representative to the 2015 ICANN Nominating Committee. Russ Housley and Eliot Lear will notify John and confirm he is still willing and able to serve. Russ/Eliot will then follow up with the other candidates and thank them for volunteering.


