
Minutes of the 2014-06-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed, and there were no changes to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 May 2014 and the 28 May 2014 business meetings were approved. The minutes of the 2014 IAB Retreat remain under review.


### 2. IETF 90 Technical Plenary


Andrew Sullivan reported that he is still waiting to hear back from potential speakers for the name-binding plenary topic.


In the meantime, Michael Richardson sent the IAB a suggestion for a topic on mapping how and where personal data travels across the Internet. The IAB agreed to set up a conference call to discuss this topic further. Andrew Sullivan will reach out to potential panelists and set up the conference call.


### 3. Proposed ICANN Bylaws Revision


The IAB briefly discussed the IAB comments on the proposed revision to the ICANN bylaws. Russ Housley reported that he has sent the text of the proposed bylaws to Jorge Contreras for legal review to see whether anything in the new text will affect the IAB’s response. Assuming that there are no issues raised during Jorge’s review, Russ Housley will send the IAB’s comments on the proposed revision to the ICANN bylaws to ICANN by the end of this week.


### 4. NTIA/IANA Stewardship Transition Steering Committee


The IAB discussed what process they would use to appoint their representatives to the NTIA/IANA Stewardship Transition Steering Committee. Russ Housley noted that ICANN is hoping to have representatives appointed by 23 June 2014 so that the group can begin organizing itself during ICANN 50, scheduled for 22-26 June 2014 in London.


Noting the time constraints, the IAB agreed to choose their representatives from within the IAB voting members and the current IANA Strategy Program members. Russ Housley will send out a call for volunteers to that group.


In addition to the representatives appointed by the IAB, ISOC and the IESG will each appoint two representatives.


### 5. Call for volunteers for C/C++ API liaison manager


Dave Thaler reported that the call for volunteers for a C/C++ API liaison manager ended on 28 May 2014, without any volunteers.


After discussion with the IAB, Dave Thaler agreed to investigate the time commitment required for the position and find out whether he would be able to take on the role himself.


### 6. Job Descriptions for NomCom


The IAB reviewed the IAB job description for NomCom. Cindy Morgan will update the list of Programs in the job description to reflect the changes made to Programs during the IAB Retreat. Once that change has been made, Joe Hildebrand, as IAB Liaison to the NomCom, will forward the IAB job description to the NomCom Chair.


### 7. ECMA Liaison Manager


Discussion of the ECMA liaison manager was deferred to the next IAB business meeting (25 June 2014).


### 8. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


