
Minutes of the 2015-09-23 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on workshop transparency was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 September 2015 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4 Action Item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. draft-iab-xml2rfcv2


The IAB approved draft-iab-xml2rfcv2 for publication as an Informational RFC. Andrew Sullivan will forward the document to the RFC Editor.


### 3. IETF 94 Technical Plenary


Brian Trammell reported that he is still working to find speakers for the IETF 94 plenary. He noted that he has a meeting with one potential speaker at the end of the week, and asked the IAB to schedule a tech chat for 30 September to discuss this further. Cindy Morgan will update the calendar accordingly.


The IAB also discussed another potential speaker; Brian Trammell will issue him an invitation on behalf of the IAB.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 94


The IAB briefly reviewed their agenda for IETF 94. The Tuesday morning breakfast meeting will be used as an IP Stack Evolution Program meeting.


The IAB agreed to review the SDNRG on Thursday morning.


Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to start putting in their meeting requests, and to let her know if they will need any A/V or catering.


### 5. Public Alerting via Internet: Opportunities/Challenges


The IAB discussed efforts around public alerting via the Internet, and whether there is any IAB action needed there. Andrew Sullivan noted that the Emergency Services Program has been quiet, but that this might be something for them to look at. Jari Arkko will send an email to Mary Barnes (Emergency Services Program Lead) to ask if the Program should get involved.


### 6. Proposed Note to ICANN re draft-ietf-dnsop-onion-tld


After a discussion, the IAB agreed to request that should the IESG issue a statement on lessons learned from, and reform of, the RFC 6761 process, that the statement be liaised to ICANN, with an invitation to interested individuals within the ICANN community to participate in that reform. Brian Trammell will send this message to the IESG.


### 7. 2016 ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB approved Tim Winicski as the IETF Liaison to the 2016 ICANN NomCom.


### 8. BOF Shepherd for ITS


Brian Haberman asked the IAB to provide a shepherd for the Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) efforts planned for IETF 95. Russ Housley agreed to be the IAB shepherd for that effort; Ralph Droms and Dave Thaler offered to attend any side meetings on the topic at IETF 94.


### 9. Possible Statement on Proposed Encryption Regulations for India


Ted Hardie reported that the Indian government has withdrawn their current proposal on encryption regulations, but that he expects an adjusted proposal to come back in the future.


The Privacy and Security Program is working on a checklist of things that proposed government regulations on encryption should consider.


### 10. Workshop Transparency


The IAB discussed the idea of workshop transparency, given the ongoing discussions on the IETF list. The IAB did not reach consensus on a response to the current discussion; Ted Hardie and Joe Hildebrand took the action to work together offline to propose text.


### 11. IAB Chair Feedback


The IAB briefly discussed the results of the IAB Chair feedback survey. Andrew Sullivan asked what the range of rating responses was; Cindy Morgan will send that information to the list.


### 12. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


