
Minutes of the 2015-06-24 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Two additional items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 June 2015 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 93


The IAB briefly discussed the Technical Plenary for IETF 93. Coordination between the speakers will continue via email.


Andrew Sullivan noted that recent plenaries have also highlighted the activities of at least one IAB Program, and asked the IAB to consider which Program to highlight in Prague.


Cindy Morgan will send the draft agenda to the mailing list for further discussion.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 93


The IAB briefly reviewed their agenda for IETF 93. Andrew Sullivan will contact Christine Runnegar to try and schedule a time for her to discuss the OECD ITAC with the IAB.


### 4. BOF Coverage for IETF 93


Cindy Morgan reported that the page to sign up for BOF coverage at IETF 93 has been updated with the current conflicts list, and asked the IAB to sign up accordingly. Ted Hardie and Dave Thaler noted that they are planning to cover the CAPPORT BOF.


### 5. ICANN Update


Several IAB members are currently attending ICANN 53 in Buenos Aires. Andrew Sullivan reported that the IANA transition continues to be a hot topic of discussion. The Cross Community Working Group (CWG) work is close to being done, but will depend on the outcome of the Cross Community Working Group on Enhancing ICANN Accountability (CCWG- Accountability) efforts.


Other discussion topics include internationalization and IDN; Andrew Sullivan will follow up with Ram Mohan about helping with the IETF LUCID efforts.


### 6. CARIS Workshop Update


Joe Hildebrand and Ted Hardie briefed the IAB on the recent CARIS workshop, noting that it was useful in that it connected communities that previously had not had much interaction. Ted Hardie will reach out to some of the IETF participants to schedule a brainstorming session during IETF 93 to discuss next steps for continued engagement.


### 7. MaRNEW Workshop Update


Joe Hildebrand reported that the MaRNEW Workshop Committee has found a space at AT&T for the workshop, and a call for papers has been sent out. Russ Housley noted that the workshop web page references the W3C TAG Finding on Securing the Web, and asked if the W3C had been sent the call for papers. Joe replied that he will follow up with Mark Nottingham to make sure that the W3C is aware.


Joe Hildebrand noted that the workshop discussions will focus on how to manage an encrypted Internet, rather than discussing why the Internet was encrypted.


### 8. Stack Evolution Program


The IAB approved the updated text for the Stack Evolution Program description. Cindy Morgan will update the website accordingly.


### 9. Correspondence to U.S. Government on recent IAB statement


The IAB agreed to send correspondence to the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, directing their attention to the recent IAB statement on the trade in security technologies as a comment on the current Proposed Rule on Wassenaar Arrangement 2013 Plenary Agreements Implementation: Intrusion and Surveillance Items (RIN 0694-AG49).


### 10. ETSI workshop on the role of Open Source and standardization


Ted Hardie reported that ETSI is planning a workshop in November to discuss how standardization can work with the open source community. The organizers are looking for someone to speak from the IETF perspective on this; Ted will forward the details to the mailing list and follow up with those who are interested offline.


### 11. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison


The IAB’s appointment of a liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors was discussed in an executive session.


### 12. Executive Session: Appeal regarding IANAPLAN Draft


Jari Arkko, Marc Blanchet, Russ Housley, Andrew Sullivan, and Suzanne Woolf recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference. The remaining IAB discussed the appeal from JFC Morfin concerning the IESG response to his appeal concerning the IESG approval of the “draft-ietf-ianaplan-icg-response” in an executive session.


