
Minutes of the 2015-11-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


### 1.2. Administrivia


There were no changes to the agenda


### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 14 October 2015 business meeting
* 21 October 2015 business meeting
* 1 November 2015 business meeting
* IETF 94 Plenary
* 5 November 2015 business meeting


The minutes of the 18 November 2015 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB approved the timeline and messaging for the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations.


### 3. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IAB discussed potential timelines for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment, noting that since IETF 95 is in April rather than March, having the incoming IAB make the appointment after IETF 95 compresses the time available for the IESG to confirm the appointment. After discussion, the IAB agreed that the current IAB will complete the appointment process prior to IETF 95. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations by 2 December 2015.


### 4. Program Mechanics


The IAB discussed time management in IAB Programs, noting that the Program’s pace is often set by the Program lead. That commonly means that Program work follows the same pulse as IETF meetings, with activity before the draft deadlines, and not often else. Noting that having other deadlines in place tends to drive work, the IAB agreed to begin cyclic reviews of Programs during IAB teleconferences, where each Program will be reviewed once between each IETF meeting.


The IAB noted that having these cyclic reviews may also help identify goals within the Program scope that are not working out or which do not have energy to proceed. This early signal will allow the Programs to re-scope their work items accordingly.


The IAB will begin these reviews with the Privacy and Security Program in January 2016. Cindy Morgan will set up a wiki page where Program Leads can sign up to have their Programs reviewed.


Ted Hardie noted that it would also be helpful to tell NomCom and day job managers that the time required to be an IAB Program Lead or contributor is greater than currently expected.


### 5. Tech Topic at IETF 95


The IAB discussed technical topics for IETF 95. There may be a potential topic on DNSSEC trust anchors; discussions about that are ongoing.


### 6. SPUD Timeline


Brian Trammell reported that discussions about an IAB/IP Stack Evolution Program/IAB Privacy and Security Program statement on traffic characterization are still ongoing. He added that he does not think this work will be ready for a BOF in time for IETF 95.


Ted Hardie asked if having a non-Working Group-forming BOF at IETF 95 would be helpful; there was concern that such a BOF would only repeat the discussions from the SPUD BOF at IETF 92. Brian Trammell suggested that it might be helpful to have a session where 3GPP can explain the architectural issues from their end. Discussions on this topic will continue on the email list.


### 7. IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop


Dave Thaler reported that Ericsson has agreed to host the IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop. The current plan is for a two-day workshop in the Silicon Valley during the third week of March 2016. The group working on the workshop plans to have the workshop proposal ready for IAB review by the end of November.


### 8. Other Business


Andrew Sullivan reminded the IAB that the e-vote on whether to sign the joint statement on WSIS+10 closes on 26 November 2015.


