
Minutes of the 2015-02-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair) (present through item 3 only)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan noted that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 92 is planned for next week, but that the time is still to be determined. Jari Arkko will send out a Doodle poll to set the time for that meeting.


No changes were made to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 January 2015 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


The minutes of the 21 January 2015 tech chat and business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 92


Cindy Morgan briefly ran through the IAB schedule for IETF 92. Dave Thaler asked that the Working Group Chairs’ Training Lunch be added to the schedule; Cindy agreed to add that.


Ted Hardie and Brian Trammell will coordinate to schedule meetings for the Privacy & Security and IP Stack Evolution Programs so that they do not overlap with each other. Cindy Morgan reminded Program leads that if their meetings will require any special food or A/V requests, they should let her know by Friday, 20 February 2015.


Cindy Morgan noted that part of the IAB business meeting on Sunday will be an executive session devoted to choosing the new IAB Chair. Brian Trammell requested that the executive session be taken at the beginning of the meeting, as he has a conflict with one of the scheduled IETF tutorials planned later in the day.


Part of the IAB business meeting on Thursday will be an executive session devoted to discussing the IAB appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees.


### 3. Tech Plenary at IETF 92


The IAB briefly discussed the Technical Plenary for IETF 92. Mary Barnes and Dave Thaler are working with Hannes Tschofenig to refine the slides he presented during the IAB tech chat on 21 January 2015 into something that can be used for the plenary.


Dave Thaler asked if the IAB should spend some time on Sunday afternoon in Dallas to go through the plenary slides one last time; several people agreed that this would be a good idea.


### 4. Internationalization Statement


The IAB discussed the feedback received on the IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode 7.0.0. After discussion, the IAB members who were present on the call decided to revise the existing statement to remove the bulleted list of character sequences recommended for exclusion in any new identifiers, as the list is not complete and may be misleading. The IAB members who were present on the call also agreed that the original statement (including the bulleted list) should be archived and linked to from the revised statement. However, since this proposal had not been discussed prior to the meeting, at least one of the three voting members who were absent from the meeting at this point (Jari Arkko, Joel Halpern, or Russ Housley) must indicate their approval for this plan before it can move forward.


The IAB considered possible next steps, including an additional IAB statement, or beginning work on an IETF-stream document proposing solutions, but no conclusion was reached at this time.


### 5. Liaison Compensation Statement


The IAB discussed the proposed statement on liaison compensation. Erik Nordmark noted that in a few places, the statement should be clarified to note that the IAB may be asked to appoint people to represent the IAB as well as the IETF. Eliot Lear agreed to update the statement accordingly.


The IAB provisionally approved the statement, pending the edits to be made by Eliot Lear and the agreement of at least one of the voting IAB members who were not on the call during the discussion (Jari Arkko, Joel Halpern, or Russ Housley).


### 6. ICANN Q2 Webinar


Prior to the meeting, Marc Blanchet reported via email that he attended the ICANN Quarterly Stakeholder call on 29 January 2015. The slides presented and a recording of the call are available at: <https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/quarterly-reports-2014-11-13-en>


### 7. CARIS/CREMA Workshop


The IAB agreed to sponsor the proposed CARIS/CREMA workshop being planned in conjunction with the FIRST conference in Berlin in June 2015. Ted Hardie noted that they may want to increase the focus on the privacy aspects. Eliot Lear will follow up with Ted and Kathleen Moriarty on the next steps for the workshop.


### 8. NIST Revised Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines Development Process


In April 2014, the IAB sent comments to NIST regarding their Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines Development Process. NIST has revised that process, and is now seeking comments on the revision. Ted Hardie agreed to review the current version and make a recommendation on how the IAB should respond.


### 9. W3C/IETF Joint Leadership Meeting


Ted Hardie reported that Mark Nottingham (IETF liaison to the W3C) is planning to arrange a joint W3C/IETF leadership meeting for October, given that the W3C TPAC meeting is the week before IETF 94 in Yokohama. Keio University has offered to host the meeting. The IAB agreed that this meeting sounds like a good idea; the IESG also has an item on their next agenda to discuss this.


Brian Trammell noted that the ACM IMC (Internet Measurement Conference) is the same week as the W3C TPAC meeting, and that there are already discussions underway about a possible joint workshop for the Saturday between the meetings. As the venue for IMC is also Keio University, it should be possible to co-locate those two events.


Mark Nottingham also had a suggestion for a potential speaker for the IETF technical plenary in Yokohama; Ted Hardie agreed to follow up with Mark to discuss that proposal further.


### 10. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


The IAB discussed the IAB appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session. Russ Housley, who was not on the call, had previously recused himself from the discussion.


