
Minutes of the 2015-03-26 IAB Business Meeting, Dallas, Texas, USA
------------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


### Guests (present for item 1 only):


* Lisandro Granville (NMRG Chair)
* Olaf Kolkman


### 1. IRTF Review: Network Management Research Group (NMRG)


Lisandro Granville, co-chair of the IRTF’s Network Management Research Group (NMRG) <http://irtf.org/nmrg>, gave an overview of the RG’s activities:


* The group has held 35 meetings since 1999.
* 6 RFCs have been published, with another 2 expected soon.
* The mailing list has 272 subscribers.


NMRG meetings held during IETFs gather around 30 participants; that number varies for NMRG meetings held at other conferences.


NMRG projects to date include:


* SNMP Evolution (RFC 3430)
* Terminology (RFC 3444)
* SMIng (RFC 3780, RFC 3781)
* Performance of Web Services for Management
* SNMP measurements and trace formats (RFC 5345)
* Retrieving knowledge out of NETFLOW/IPFIX flows
* Autonomic management (ANIMA)


The challenges NMRG faces include:


* Large-scale network-wide measurements
* Management of the Internet of Things (IoT)
* Management of complex network environments such as IoT, SDN, cloud datacenter networks, etc.
* Autonomic management


Lisandro Granville noted that NMRG has received criticism from the research community for a lack of transparency. To address that, the chairs are trying to ensure that meeting topics are discussed on the mailing list prior to the meeting. Erik Nordmark asked if the NMRG was getting the right people to participate. Lisandro replied that for meetings held at conferences they are getting the right people, but that they don’t know all the attendees that come to IETF meetings.


Eliot Lear asked if the focus in NMRG will change now that their most recent documents have been finished, or if work will continue on autonomics. Lisandro Granville replied that there will be more work on autonomics, particularly on the parts that wouldn’t be appropriate for the ANIMA Working Group.


Brian Trammell noted that the topic is large, and that the research community seems very fragmented. Lisandro Granville replied that NMRG is trying to get closer to the research community, and is asking community members to submit papers to conferences. Dave Thaler asked if CodeMatch would help connect the people who write papers and the people who write code. Lisandro replied that most of the code they have is from researchers, but those researchers aren’t producing Internet-drafts.


### 2. Executive Session: Executive Director


The IAB discussed creating a role to specifically manage the overall IAB Program structure. Andrew Sullivan will send a refined proposal to the board for review.


### 3. Executive Session: ISOC BOT Appointment


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the room. The IAB discussed the ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment in an executive session.


