
Minutes of the 2015-06-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 93 will be held on Thursday, 11 June 2015.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 27 May 2015 business meeting were approved.


### 2. IETF 93 Technical Plenary


The IAB briefly discussed the Technical Plenary for IETF 93. Russ Housley will work with William Whyte on his presentation for the plenary; Cindy Morgan will check with Lars Eggert regarding Christoph Sommer and Falko Dressler’s presentation.


### 3. Possible Statement on Export Restrictions on Security Technologies


Ted Hardie reported that the IAB Privacy and Security Program is likely to request an IAB statement about export restrictions on security technologies. The IAB agreed that this sounds like a reasonable thing to do. Ted Hardie will follow up with the Program about specific text, and hopes to have something for the IAB to review in the next week or so.


### 4. IAB Comments on the CCWG Accountability Draft Document


The IAB approved the text for the IAB comments on the CCWG Accountability Draft Document. Andrew Sullivan will post those comments to ICANN on behalf of the IAB.


### 5. 2015 ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB agreed on the plan and timeline for the ICANN Board Liaison appointment. Cindy Morgan will update the text for the call for feedback on the current liaison to include a deadline for comments; once that has been completed, Andrew Sullivan will send out the call for feedback.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN RSSAC Liaison Appointment


The IAB went into executive sessions, and the liaisons left the teleconference. Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference as well.


After discussion, the IAB selected Daniel Migault as the new IETF liaison to the ICANN RSSAC. Marc Blanchet will follow up with all of the candidates; once that has been completed, Andrew Sullivan will make the announcement.


