
Minutes of the 2015-03-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms (incoming IAB)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks (incoming IAB)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf (incoming IAB)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Joe Hildebrand
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that Daylight Savings Time begins in North America this weekend, and so the time for the next IAB teleconference may be shifted by one hour for people in Europe. She will call this out explicitly when she sends out the meeting agenda.


### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 25 February 2015 IAB business meeting were approved.


### 2. GSMA Meeting Report


Jari Arkko reported that discussions at GSMA included how to increase the involvement of mobile operators in the IETF, as well as efforts towards encryption and traffic management. It is expected that discussions on the latter topic will continue at the SPUD BOF at IETF 92.


### 3. IANA Discussions


Jari Arkko reported that he and Russ Housley met with Larry Strickling of NTIA to discuss the IANA transition.


### 4. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment of the liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors for 2015-2017. Cindy Morgan will draft a timeline for the appointment process that has the new term for the liaison coinciding with the ICANN Annual General Meeting in October 2015.


### 5. IAB Agenda at IETF 92


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 92, and agreed to add a topic to the Tuesday morning session to discuss Program leadership.


### 6. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


The IAB discussed the Technical Plenary at IETF 92. Dave Thaler had previously sent a draft version of the slides to the IAB for review; he expects to have an updated version of the slides sometime in the next week.


After discussion, the IAB agreed to move the technical topic on Smart Object Architecture to be before the reports on the SEMI workshop and the IAB statement on Identifiers and Unicode 7.0.0. The IAB also agreed to separate the Q&A on the technical topic from the regular IAB open mic session.


### 7. BOF Coverage at IETF 92


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the BOF page on the internal wiki and sign up to cover sessions as available.


Lars Eggert requested that two proposed Research Groups (Proposed Human Rights Protocol Considerations Research Group and Proposed Thing-to-Thing Research Group) be added to the page so that IAB members could sign up to cover those as well; Cindy Morgan will update the wiki accordingly.


### 8. CARIS Workshop Call for Papers


The IAB approved sending out the Call for Papers for the CARIS workshop. Russ Housley will send out the announcement, and Cindy Morgan will update the website.


### 9. Liaison Manager to RSSAC


The IAB agreed to defer looking for a new liaison manager for RSSAC until after IETF 92.


### 10. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the IAB appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: IAB Chair Selection Discussion


Russ Housley re-joined the teleconference. The IAB Chair candidates recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB Chair position was discussed in an executive session.


