
Minutes of the 2015-04-29 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reported that the BOF coordination call for IETF 93 has been scheduled for Thursday, 11 June. WebEx details have been sent out and added to the calendar.


Andrew Sullivan will send a reminder that the call for nominations for the ICANN RSSAC liaison manager position closes on 8 May 2015.


An item on draft-trammell-semi-report was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 15 April 2015 business meeting were approved.


### 2. 2015 Retreat Planning


The IAB reviewed the agenda for their upcoming retreat, and assigned IAB members to lead the discussions of each of the topics. Cindy Morgan will update the agenda accordingly.


### 3. IETF 93 Technical Plenary


The IAB discussed a potential technical plenary topic on connected vehicles. Joe Hildebrand and Lars Eggert will reach out to potential speakers and ask them to put together a few bullet points so that the IAB can consider this further.


### 4. IAB Liaison Shepherds


The IAB reviewed the list of liaison relationships that do not currently have an IAB shepherd. After discussion, the IAB agreed that:


* Joe Hildebrand will shepherd the ECMA TC39 liaison relationship.
* Andrew Sullivan will continue shepherding the ICANN Board of Directors liaison relationship.
* Marc Blanchet will continue shepherding the ICANN RSSAC liaison relationship.
* Ted Hardie will shepherd the ICANN Technical Liaison Group liaison relationship.
* Ralph Droms will shepherd the ITU-T liaison relationship.
* Suzanne Woolf will shepherd the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (M3AAWG) liaison relationship.


Cindy Morgan will update the liaison managers page on the IETF website and the IAB internal wiki to reflect these changes.


The IAB still needs shepherds for the ICANN NomCom and ITU-T SG15 liaison relationships. Ralph Droms asked IAB members to think about volunteering; the topic will be discussed further at the IAB retreat.


Additionally, the IAB noted that they are unclear on the current status of the liaison relationship with WIPO; Ralph Droms will follow up with Eliot Lear and ask for more information.


Russ Housley noted that the IAB is still in the process of creating a liaison relationship with ISO TC-204; once that liaison relationship is in place, it will need both a liaison manager and an IAB shepherd.


### 5. draft-iab-strint-report


The IAB Last Call on draft-iab-strint-report-00 ended on 29 April 2015. Marc Blanchet will update the document to address the comments received to date before the document is sent out for community review.


### 6. draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-threat


The community review of draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-threat-04 ended on 22 April 2015. Brian Trammell uploaded a new revision to address the comments that were received. The IAB and the Privacy and Security Program will review the current revision before the IAB gives their final approval to publish the document.


### 7. ICANN Supplemental Agreement


Andrew Sullivan reported that he and Jari Arkko attended a call with the ICANN Board of Directors to discuss the 2015 supplemental agreement to the ICANN MOU, as well as the ongoing IANA transition plans. Andrew and Jari reiterated the IETF’s position, noting that the IETF process requires that decisions are made in an open and transparent way.


The IAB discussed a draft note to be sent to the IANAPLAN working group that gives an update to the community on the current discussion between the IETF and ICANN regarding the Supplemental Agreement. The note will be signed by Jari Arkko (IETF Chair), Tobias Gondrom (IAOC Chair), and Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair). The IAB agreed that this message should be sent.


### 8. Potential IAB Workshop


Joe Hildebrand reported that GSMA is proposing a joint workshop with the IAB on managing radio networks in an encrypted world. The IAB agreed that this was an interesting idea; Joe will work with the folks who initially suggested the workshop to put together a more concrete proposal for the IAB to review.


### 9. draft-trammell-semi-report


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-trammell-semi-report as an IAB-stream document.


