
Minutes of the 2015-06-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 93 will be held on Thursday, 11 June 2015.


Cindy Morgan reported that the transition of i1b.org from Dreamhost to an IETF server is expected to be completed by early next week.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 June 2015 business meeting were approved.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
10 Jun 2015

Topics:

 I. WSIS and IGF meetings
II. Human Rights
III. Global Internet Report
IV. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
 V. CITEL
VI. World IPv6 Launch Turns 3

I. WSIS and IGF meetings
- CSTD [1] (4-8 May): This was the last phase of the WSIS review process 
before the UN General Assembly process begins next week in New York. A 
report on "Implementing WSIS outcomes: A ten-year review" was discussed. 
A Resolution on WSIS was also negotiated, but with very little 
advancement in comparison to last year's resolution: the mandate of the 
IGF is not yet renewed, and there is little guidance on the events to be 
held in New York in December. Raul Echeberria, VP Global Engagement 
(Internet Society), was invited to deliver a high-level statement.

- IGF MAG and Open Consultations [2] (20-22 May): The Multistakeholder 
Advisory Group (MAG) continued preparations for the 2015 Internet 
Governance Forum, which will be held in Brazil from 10 to 13 November 
2015. Considerable efforts were spent on intersessional work, and with 
ongoing progress with Best Practices Forums [3] (a format that focuses 
on sharing lessons learned from dealing with tangible issues such as 
spam). A new track on developing "Policy menus for Connecting the Next 
Billion" was also launched.

- ITU WSIS Forum (25-29 May): WSIS Forums provide an annual avenue to 
take stock of progress on WSIS Action Lines. The theme of this year's 
forum was "Innovating Together: Enabling ICTs for Sustainable 
Development". The Internet Society organized a set of sessions 
(collaborative security, local content) and we also had high-level 
representatives delivering policy statements, including Olaf Kolkman. We 
also organized with ICC, CS and GIP a cross-community session on 
Internet governance that gathered around 90 people.

[1] http://unctad.org/en/Pages/MeetingDetails.aspx?meetingid=606
[2] http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/
[3] http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/best-practice-forums
[4] http://www.itu.int/net4/wsis/forum/2015/

II. Human Rights
David Kaye, U.N. Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of 
the right to freedom of opinion and expression, released his first 
report [1], which will be submitted to the Human Rights Council in June. 
The Internet Society was one of a number of non-governmental 
organisations that provided a submission for the consultation on this 
report [2], which focuses on issues related to encryption and anonymity. 
The Special Rapporteur concluded, among other things: “States should 
avoid all measures that weaken the security that individuals may enjoy 
online, such as backdoors, weak encryption standards and key escrows”. 
He also encourages states and non-governmental stakeholders “to engage 
in a campaign to bring encryption by design and default to users around 
the world”.

The Internet Society will take the opportunity of the next session of 
the Human Rights Council (15 June to 3 July in Geneva) to host a dinner 
with UN Special Rapporteur David Kaye and civil society leaders, around 
the release of his report on encryption and anonymity. The Internet 
Society will also host a session with the US Mission 2015 Internet 
Freedom fellows, who will share their experience on women and ICTs in 
countries such as Belarus, Brunei, Zambia, Kenya and Palestine.

[1] Available for download from
http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/FreedomOpinion/Pages/
CallForSubmission.aspx
[2] http://www.ohchr.org/en/professionalinterest/pages/ccpr.aspx

III. Global Internet Report
The Internet Society’s second annual Global Internet Report will be 
released in early July.  The topic is the mobile Internet, which we 
chose because of its role in promoting development, with the next 
billion likely to come online with mobile broadband, and the evolution 
of the Internet as app usage becomes the dominant way for users to go 
online.  The report provides a significant amount of data and analysis, 
highlights new services that show the benefit of the mobile Internet, 
and examines key challenges raised by the mobile Internet along with 
making recommendations.

IV. W3C Privacy Interest Group (PING)
PING held its monthly teleconference on 14 May 2015. Representatives 
from the Web Applications Security WG and Web Payments Interest Group 
joined the call to discuss privacy considerations for Subresource 
Integrity (SRI) [1] and Web payments use cases [2]. SRI defines a 
mechanism by which user agents may verify that a fetched resource has 
been delivered without unexpected manipulation.
The meeting summary is available here:
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/2015AprJun/0049.html

[1] http://w3c.github.io/webappsec/specs/subresourceintegrity/
[2] http://www.w3.org/TR/web-payments-use-cases/

V. CITEL
The XXVI Meeting of the Permanent Consultative Committee I (PCC.I): 
Telecommunication/ICT from CITEL (Inter-American Telecommunication 
Commission) took place on 26-29 May, in Cusco, Peru.  Attendance is 
mainly from Member States’ telecom regulators within the Americas 
region. ISOC is an Associate Member. ISOC submitted 6 informative 
documents about: IETF participation and upcoming Buenos Aires meeting; 
IXP case studies in LAC region; capacity building opportunities on 
Internet Governance and Digital Footprint; and Collaborative Security. 
ISOC’s leading role in capacity building on Internet Governance was 
recognised in 2 final decision documents from the Member States. Outcome 
documents have also tackled other topics such as: joint efforts to 
collect best practices on IXP implementation and the creation of a 
technical notebook for IPv6 Best Practices. In preparation for the ITU 
World Telecommunication Standardization Assembly WTSA 2016, the group 
has also raised discussions on standards for Internet of Things (IoT). 
The next PCC.I meeting will be on 29 September-3 October, Washington DC, 
USA.

VI. World IPv6 Launch Turns 3
June 6 marked the third anniversary of World IPv6 Launch and the growth 
of IPv6 continues at a strong pace. Ongoing World IPv6 Launch 
measurements [1] show a number of large networks with substantial 
deployments of IPv6.  Google's IPv6 statistics [2] recently crossed over 
7% for the first time.  The Internet Society Deploy360 Programme 
published a post [3] noting the anniversary and continuing our ongoing 
efforts to promote the deployment of IPv6.

[1] http://www.worldipv6launch.org/measurements/
[2] https://www.google.com/intl/en/ipv6/statistics.html
[3] http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/blog/2015/06/celebrating-
the-3rd-launchiversary-of-world-ipv6-launch/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


Ted Hardie asked if the PING work had been shared with any IETF working groups, noting that HTTPBIS had worked on similar proposals in the past. Mat Ford replied that he was not sure, but that he would contact Christine Runnegar, who is leading the work on the ISOC side, about possibly making a presentation to the HTTPBIS working group during IETF 93.


Russ Housley asked if the reference to “the upcoming Buenos Aires meeting” in the CITEL section of the report referred to ICANN 53 (June 2015) or IETF 95 (March 2016). Mat Ford replied that he thought it referred to the IETF meeting, but that he will check this and report back.


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas–



```
Recent new working groups:
  CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (cose)
  Internet Video Codec (netvc) 

Current new chartering:
  Automated Certificate Management Environment (acme)
  Label Generation Rules (lager)
  Javascript Object Notation Update (jsonbis)
  IMAP APPEND Extensions (imapapnd)
  Privacy Enhanced RTP Conferencing (perc)
  Managing, Ordering, Distributing, Exposing, & Registering telephone 
    Numbers (modern)
  DDoS Open Threat Signaling (dots)
  An Open Specification for Pretty Good Privacy (openpgp)

Current rechartering:

Pending rechartering:

Recently closed working groups:
  Protocol to Access WS database (paws)  
  Web PKI OPS (wpkops)

Personnel changes:
  None
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas–


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- NFVRG interim at IEEE ICC

- Some IRTF stream errata processed

- Some liaisons from ITU-T received; since [IRTF is] not an SDO and set 
  up to handle these, approach is to forward to Scott Mansfield and let 
  him follow up
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


The IAB discussed which Research Group to review at IETF 93. GAIA will meet at IETF 93, and has not been reviewed before. However, there was a request from the ICNRG chairs to discuss potential interactions with the ITU-T FG IMT-2020. After discussion, the IAB agreed to try to schedule a formal review of GAIA, with ICNRG as a backup. Regardless, the IAB will meet with the ICNRG chairs on Friday morning to discuss possible interactions with ITU-T FG IMT-2020.


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-comments#open-public)

Cross Community Working Group on Enhancing ICANN Accountability (CCWG-
Accountability) - Input Needed on its Proposed Accountability 
Enhancements (Work Stream 1)
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/ccwg-accountability-draft-
proposal-2015-05-04-en)
12 June 2015 (extended from June 3rd due to late translation)


II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

ICANN CEO Fadi Chehadé announces the end of his tenure
------------------------------------------------------
(https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2015-05-21-en)

Mr. Chehadé has decided to conclude his tenure by March 2016. He is 
planning to move to the private sector outside the domain name industry. 


Continuation of the stewardship transition discussion
-----------------------------------------------------

The Cross Community Working Group on IANA stewardship transition, the 
2nd draft report comment period has ended. There quite some comments 
(http://forum.icann.org/lists/comments-cwg-stewardship-draft-
proposal-22apr15/). The official report of the comments has not been 
published, yet. 

In addition, the work on improving ICANN accountability is going ahead. 
The comment period has been now extended to June 12th. 

The ICANN meeting is starting on June 21st and this is most probably 
going to be one of the key topics of the meeting.


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

The next ICANN meeting is June 21st-25th, 2015 in Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. Clearly the IANA stewardship transition topic will be one of 
the key topics discussed during the meeting as, for instance, the names 
community is expected to finalise their proposal by that time.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Liaison Report – 10 June 2015

2014 SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 98% of processing goal times for the April 2015 monthly 
statistics, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal times.  
These times include the steps that the IANA Department has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.

- We are in the process of defining the engagement with Price Waterhouse 
Cooper for the annual SOC2 and SOC3 audits.  This audit includes the 
annual review of protocol parameter work as described in the deliverable 
in the SLA.

Other News:

- There is a new blog posting by Alain Durand about the volume of 
requests related to the IANA functions: 
https://www.icann.org/news/blog/iana-functions-usage-analysis

- There is a new booklet describing the IANA functions that will be 
published on-line and a paper copy will be available at the Buenos Aires 
ICANN meeting.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.6. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE Update
* Format
The RFC Format Design Team is reaching closure on the last big items in
the requirements - the handling of cross references within a document.
There are two proposals currently under discussion, and the debate has
been moved to rfc-interest for additional community feedback. When the
cross-reference question is resolved, the output requirements' drafts
will be updated and sufficient for the RFP to go out to bid. As a
reminder, the documents produced by the design team will remain in draft
form until there is running code, as we expect to iterate on the details
as we learn more through the implementation process.

* DOI
DOIs have been assigned to all past and present RFCs, and the assignment
process is now part of the publication of each RFC. The Style Guide (web
portion) has been updated to reflect DOI use within the Series. This
project is now considered complete, and will move into operational
maintenance going forward.

* W3C Digital Publishing Interest Group face-to-face
The W3C DPUB group<http://www.w3.org/dpub/> met in New York on May 26
for their semi-annual face-to-face meeting. The RFC Series Editor acts
as an Invited Expert to that group, offering another perspective on
publisher requirements for the web and learning about the same from
other ares of the publishing industry. Topics included discussing
possible packaging requirements, fragment identifier requirements,
accessibility for the web from a publisher's standpoint, and
rechartering for the group going forward.

* Society for Scholarly Publishing 2015 conference
The SSP 2015 annual conference was held in Washington, DC, from May
27-29. This was an exploratory foray on the part of the RSE to see if
this organization might have something to offer to the RFC Series in
terms of best practices and contacts in the publishing industry. There
were several useful sessions on the program, including: Zen and the Art
of Metadata Maintenance, New Product Development, Choosing the Right
Technology, Standards and IDs, and The Business of Publishing. Some of
those sessions, particularly the New Product Development and The
Business of Publishing, offered some useful insight into what a
publisher—particularly one associated with a scholarly society—needs to
go through before the publish a new title.

RPC Update
* Stats - http://www.rfc-editor.org/reports/
- - From the reports page: "We are seeing a significant impact on the
RFC Editor processing times as several clusters make their way to
publication. Cluster 241 (C241), the jose/oauth cluster of 9
documents, was published as well as RFCs from eight other clusters. Of
the documents published this month, 58% were associated with a
cluster. Processing time for cluster documents are usually longer as
the editors work through consistency issues within the cluster."
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Andrew Sullivan asked if either the W3C Digital Publishing Interest Group meeting or the Society for Scholarly Publishing 2015 conference provided any insights about handling possible additional RFC streams. Heather Flanagan replied that the SSP conference included a session that discussed things publishers need to consider when adding new titles. One of the key points in that discussion is that community buy-in is necessary; Heather noted that there is not currently community buy-in for adding an additional RFC stream.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 93


Cindy Morgan asked Program leads to put in their meeting requests as soon as possible, noting that the IAB will be sharing breakout space with the IESG at this meeting.


### 4. IAB Statement on the trade in security technologies


The IAB members who were on the call approved the text for the IAB statement on the trade in security technologies. Andrew Sullivan will follow up with the IAB members who were not on the call to make sure that there are not any objections before sending out the statement.


### 5. Possible RFC on the trade in security technologies


Ted Hardie observed that RFC 1984, “IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic Technology and the Internet,” was the result of a larger community discussion and wondered if the IAB statement on the trade in security technologies should be codified in an RFC in a similar manner, signed by both the IESG and the IAB. The IAB agreed that this was a good idea; Ted will contact Stephen Farrell about starting work on such a document in the Security Area so that it can go through the IETF consensus process.


### 6. MaRNEW Workshop Update


Joe Hildebrand briefed the IAB on the current status of the Managing Radio Networks in an Encrypted World (MaRNEW) Workshop. The website <<https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/marnew/>> has gone live, and the call for papers is expected to go out soon.


The exact venue for the workshop has not been confirmed yet; there are a number of events in Atlanta that week, which is making it a challenge to find space. Brian Trammell agreed to reach out to contacts at Georgia Tech and find out if they might be able to accommodate the workshop.


Cindy Morgan will add Russ Housley, Andrew Sullivan, and Brian Trammell to the workshop mailing list.


### 7. Stack Evolution Program


Discussion of the updated text for the Stack Evolution Program webpage are ongoing on the mailing list.


### 8. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


