
Minutes of the 2015-04-08 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### REGRETS:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to shift the time of their teleconferences to be one hour later. Cindy Morgan will follow up with an email to the IAB list, and if there are no objections, will update the calendar and WebEx details accordingly.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 11 March 2015 business meeting were approved.


The following minutes remain under review:


* 22 March 2015 business meeting
* 24 March 2015 business meeting
* 26 March 2015 business meeting
* IETF 92 Technical Plenary


### 2. 2015 Retreat Planning


The IAB brainstormed several topics to add to the agenda for their 2015 retreat. Andrew Sullivan asked the IAB to add further potential agenda items to the internal wiki page by early Tuesday, 14 April 2015. Andrew will work with Cindy Morgan to create an early draft of the retreat agenda so that it is available for the IAB to discuss at their next business meeting on 15 April 2015.


### 3. 2015 ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed their appointment of a liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Jonne Soininen, the current liaison, and ask if he is willing to stand for the role again. Once that question has been answered, the IAB will proceed accordingly.


### 4. RSSAC Liaison Manager Appointment


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the draft text for the RSSAC Liaison Manager call for nominations, and to provide any feedback by mid-day on Thursday, 9 April 2015. Andrew Sullivan will send out the call for nominations by the end of this week.


### 5. IAB Comments on The HTTPS-Only Standard


After discussion, the IAB approved the text for their comments on the HTTPS-Only Standard pending minor edits to be made by Ted Hardie. Once those edits are complete, Ted will submit the comments via GitHub and Cindy Morgan will post the comments to the Correspondence section of the IAB website.


### 6. IETF 93 Technical Plenary


The IAB briefly discussed the technical plenary for IETF 93. There was a request to move the plenary session to the morning in order to make time for additional working group sessions; the IAB is waiting on further clarification on how this will affect the overall schedule. The discussion will continue on the mailing list.


### 7. RSOC Membership


The IAB agreed to retain Joel Halpern on the RSOC as a non-IAB member.


### 8. ICANN SLA


Andrew Sullivan reported that the IETF does not yet have a signed SLA with ICANN for 2015; currently, things are proceeding according to the 2014 SLA. Updated SLA text is expected from ICANN by the end of the week; after discussion, the IAB agreed to wait until they have seen that text before deciding on next steps.


### 9. IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC)


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to add Andrew Sullivan to the IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC).


Russ Housley took an action item to draft text to change the IPROC into a new IAB Program.


### 10. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion. The IAB selected two candidates to appoint to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Jari Arkko will pass the slate along to the IESG for confirmation.


