
Minutes of the 2015-03-22 IAB Business Meeting, Dallas, Texas, USA
------------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


### Guests:


* Olaf Kolkman (present for items 2-4 only)
* Hannes Tschofenig (present for item 4 only)


### 1. Executive Session: IAB Chair Election


In an executive session, the IAB selected Andrew Sullivan as the IAB Chair for 2015-2016.


### 2. IAB Positions


Brian Trammell will continue to serve as the IAB Liaison to the IESG.


Robert Sparks will act as the IAB Liaison to the NomCom for 2015-2016.


After discussion, the IAB made the following changes to the leadership of IAB Programs:


* Emergency Services (dormant): Mary Barnes will continue as lead.
* IANA Evolution Program: Russ Housley will replace Andrew Sullivan as lead.
* Internationalization Program: Joe Hildebrand will replace Andrew Sullivan as lead. Ted Hardie will join the Program.
* IP Stack Evolution Program: Brian Trammell will continue as lead.
* ITU-T Coordination Program: This Program will merge into the Liaison Oversight Program.
* Liaison Oversight Program: Ralph Droms will replace Eliot Lear as  

lead. Robert Sparks will join the Program.
* Name Resolution Program: Suzanne Woolf will replace Andrew Sullivan as lead.
* Privacy and Security Program: Ted Hardie will continue as lead.
* RFC Editor Program: Robert Sparks will replace Joel Halpern as lead.


Eliot Lear noted that IAB members also have the opportunity to serve as at-large members of the Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG), and encouraged anyone who is interested to contact Lars Eggert.


### 3. LAC-IETF


Eliot Lear noted the ongoing coordination efforts of the LAC-IETF group, and observed that those activities will only gain in importance as the IETF approaches IETF 95 in Buenos Aires.


### 4. IETF 92 Plenary Prep


With Hannes Tschofenig, the IAB held a dry run of the technical plenary presentations for IETF 92.


