
Minutes of the 2015-02-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair) (present for beginning of call only)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms (incoming IAB)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks (incoming IAB)
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf (incoming IAB)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No changes were made to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 21 January 2015 tech chat/business meeting and the 11 February 2015 business meeting were approved.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 92


Russ Housley asked Program Leads to speak up soon if their Program is planning to meet at IETF 92 and has not already reserved a slot.


Andrew Sullivan will send out a Doodle poll to the IAB to schedule a time to discuss the Name Resolution Program.


Eliot Lear noted that Kathleen Moriarty is planning to meet with the CARIS Workshop team during the Wednesday lunch slot at IETF 92. Dave Thaler noted that this will conflict with the Working Group Chairs’ Training Lunch that the Internationalization Program is running, but at this point, some conflicts are unavoidable.


Cindy Morgan will set up the BOF coverage page on the internal wiki so that the IAB can begin discussions on BOF coverage at IETF 92.


### 3. Tech Plenary at IETF 92


Dave Thaler reported that he and Mary Barnes are meeting with Hannes Tschofenig immediately following the IAB meeting; they are planning for the technical topic to run 30 minutes total. Dave will send out a draft of the technical presentation slides after the meeting with Hannes.


### 4. IAB Liaison to the IESG


The IAB approved Brian Trammell as the new IAB Liaison to the IESG. The IAB thanked Mary Barnes for her service in that role over the past year.


### 5. Update from I\* Leaders’ Meeting on 13 February


Jari Arkko and Russ Housley reported on the discussions that took place at a recent I\* Leaders’ informal meeting.


### 6. draft-iab-iana-principles


The IAB approved draft-iab-iana-principles pending edits to be made by Russ Housley. Russ will update the document and send it to the RFC Editor.


### 7. draft-iab-2870bis


Marc Blanchet asked members of the IAB to comment on the threads relating to draft-iab-2870bis on the IETF discussion list. Jari Arkko noted that people should make clear that they are commenting as individuals, and not as IAB members.


### 8. Liaison Oversight Program Leadership


Eliot Lear noted that he will be stepping down from the IAB after IETF 92, and as such, the Liaison Oversight Program will need a new Lead. He asked the IAB to consider this, with hopes of having a new volunteer in place prior to IETF 92 to ease the transition. The IAB thanked Eliot for his service in that role.


The IAB also agreed to start merging the ITU-T Coordination Program back into the larger Liaison Oversight Program.


### 9. Liaison Compensation Statement


The IAB approved the current version of the Liaison Compensation statement. Mary Barnes will forward the statement to the IESG, Cindy Morgan will post it on the IAB website, and Russ Housley will send an announcement to the community.


### 10. Listing IAB appointments on iab.org


The IAB approved adding the list of IAB appointments compiled by Cindy Morgan to the website.


### 11. Liaison Manager to RSSAC


Marc Blanchet has been serving as the interim IAB liaison to the ICANN Root Server System Advisory Committee (RSSAC) while the RSSAC was in the process of re-booting. With the reconfirmation of the IAB liaison to RSSAC <<https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports- documents/2015-2/iab-liaison-to-icann-root-server-system-advisory- council-rssac/>> and the near-completion of draft-iab-2870bis and that RSSAC has completed its restructuration, the IAB agreed to start looking for a new liaison manager which is not an IAB member.


Marc Blanchet and Cindy Morgan will work together on proposed text for the Call for Nominations, as well as a timeline for the appointment process. Eliot Lear suggested timing the call for nominations so that the IAB can interview candidates during IETF 92; the current plan is to send out the announcement by the end of this week.


### 12. Liaison Manager to ITU-T for MPLS


Eliot Lear will follow up with Deborah Brungard and Scott Mansfield about whether there is a need to continue having a dedicated liaison manager to the ITU-T for MPLS. This topic will also be discussed in the Liaison Oversight Program. Cindy Morgan will add this to the IAB agenda for IETF 92.


### 13. i1b.org


The IAB agreed to migrate management of the internal i1b.org website and mailing lists from Dreamhost to AMS. Russ Housley will follow up with AMS IT.


### 14. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the IAB appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will follow up with the candidates to schedule interviews at IETF 92 once the agenda is finalized.


