
Minutes of the 2015-12-09 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on IAB comments on Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Operational Profile for gTLD Registries and Registrars was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 18 November 2015 and 25 November 2015 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action list was reviewed.


### 2. RFC Format Drafts


The IAB agreed to adopt the following drafts as IAB-stream documents:


* “RFC Format Framework”, draft-flanagan-rfc-framework-07
* “The ‘XML2RFC’ version 3 Vocabulary”, draft-hoffman-xml2rfc-23
* “HyperText Markup Language Request For Comments Format”, draft-hildebrand-html-rfc-10
* “Requirements for Plain Text RFCs”, draft-flanagan-plaintext-09
* “PDF for an RFC Series Output Document Format”, draft-hansen-rfc-use-of-pdf-08
* “SVG Drawings for RFCs: SVG 1.2 RFC”, draft-brownlee-svg-rfc-13,  

“The Use of Non-ASCII Characters in RFCs”, draft-flanagan-nonascii-06, [[https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-flanagan-nonascii-06.pdf](https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-flanagan-nonascii-06.pdf "https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-flanagan-nonascii-06.pdf")]
* “RFC v3 Prep Tool Description”, draft-hoffman-rfcv3-preptool-06  

“Examples of the ‘XML2RFC’ Version 2 and 3 Vocabularies”, draft-hoffman-rfcexamples-04


The IAB will review the documents by 13 January 2016 to evaluate whether they are ready for community review.


### 3. Tech Topic at IETF 95


DNSSEC key rollover was suggested as a topic at for a (non-plenary)  

technical session at IETF 95. Andrew Sullivan will follow up with  

Jonne Soininen about ICANN’s plans for the DNSSEC key rollover.


### 4. Liaison Manager and Shepherd for ISO/TC204


The IAB approved Alexandre Petrescu as the liaison manager for ISO/TC204. Cindy Morgan will coordinate with Ralph Droms to set up Alexandre’s Datatracker permissions and update the website.


### 5. SPUD Timeline


Ted Hardie reported that a team is working on a BOF proposal for IETF 95 to examine both what specific network treatments need to be elicited for the efficient operation of Radio Access Networks (RANs), if any, and what the minimal communication to elicit those treatments would be. The BOF description is currently under review by the IAB and the IP Stack Evolution Program. Ted added that this would be an IETF BOF, not an IAB session. Jari Arkko asked where the public discussion of this proposal will take place, and whether a new mailing list is needed. Jari and Ted will discuss offline where the community discussion should happen.


### 6. IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop


The IAB approved the text for the call for papers for the IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop. Cindy Morgan will update the website and send out the call for papers.


Jari Arkko and Ralph Droms will write an introduction to the call for papers to be sent to the new-work mailing list along with the workshop announcement.


### 7. 2016 Retreat


The IAB discussed potential dates for the 2016 IAB retreat. Cindy Morgan and Andrew Sullivan will set up a Doodle poll to narrow down the options and send it out to the IAB.


### 8. IRTF Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed the timeline for the appointment of the next IRTF Chair, and agreed to begin the process after the current NomCom announces the slates for 2016-2018. Cindy Morgan will draft a timeline for this appointment.


### 9. RDAP


The IAB agreed to provide comments on the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Operational Profile for gTLD Registries and Registrars. The public comment period ends on 18 January 2016. Andrew Sullivan will draft text for the comments and send them out to the IAB and Privacy and Security Program mailing lists for review.


