
Minutes of the 2015-10-07 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


##### Guest:


* Alberto Dainotti


#### 1.2. Administrivia


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 September 2015 and the 23 September 2015 business meetings were approved.


### 2. IETF 94 Plenary


The IAB reviewed the technical presentations for the IETF 94 plenary. Brian Trammell introduced the topic on measurement-driven protocol engineering. Alberto Dainotti from CAIDA added details from his experiences measuring and monitoring BGP, particularly with BGPStream. a software framework for historical and live BGP analysis.


The IAB discussed ways to tighten up the presentations. Cindy Morgan will send out email to schedule additional dry runs before the IETF 94 plenary.


### 3. Technical Transition Strategies


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-thaler-transition-principles as an IAB-stream document. Dave Thaler will resubmit the document as draft-iab-transition-principles before the IETF 94 I-D submission deadline. Dave will also reply to Steve Crocker’s original email on the same topic.


The IAB agreed that this work would fit into the IP Stack Evolution Program.


### 4. Response to the ICG


Ted Hardie will update the text for the IAB’s response to the ICG. Andrew Sullivan will send the updated text out to the IAB for an e-vote to approve.


### 5. Response to FCC on WiFi Lockdown


The IAB approved the text of their comments on the proposed FCC rules regarding authorization of radiofrequency equipment. Andrew Sullivan will submit those comments on behalf of the IAB.


### 6. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


