
IAB Business Meeting, 2015-07-19, Prague, Czech Republic
--------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Guests:


* Constance Bommelaer
* Christine Runnegar
* Olaf Kolkman
* Greg Wood
* Kathleen Moriarty


### 1. IAB Communications


The IAB reviewed their current communications plan with Greg Wood. Since the IAB retreat in May, a @intarchboard Twitter account has been set up and begun tweeting. There was also a blog post on the recent CARIS workshop.


Programs Leads are working on descriptions of their Programs’ activities for different audiences (current and potential IETF participants, other SDOs and industry consortia, and national regulators and policy makers).


### 2. OECD ITAC Update


Constance Bommelaer and Christine Runnegar updated the IAB about the Internet Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC) to the OECD. The ITAC was formed to bring together the counsel and expertise of technically focused organizations, in a decentralized and networked approach to policy formulation for the Internet economy and to provide useful information to OECD member states as they develop Internet-related policies.


The ITAC is an informal platform with no legal existence. The IETF and the IAB are participants; ISOC was tasked with monitoring this activity on their behalf and raising any issues requiring deeper insight to the IAB’s attention.


Areas of interest for the ITAC include topics about privacy, security, identity, IP interconnection, and Internet infrastructure. The next ITAC meeting at an OCED Ministerial meeting will be on “The economic benefits of an Open Internet” in June 2016.


### 3. NomCom


Robert Sparks asked the IAB if there was anything in the IAB job description for NomCom that needed to be updated for this cycle. The IAB agreed that the general job description has not changed, but that the NomCom should ask candidates about the IAB Programs and ask their opinions about those activities, and where there might be gaps.


### 4. Program Scope


The IAB discussed the way that IAB Programs are perceived outside of the IAB, and how they are different from IETF Working Groups or IRTF Research Groups.


There is concern that some of the work in the IP Stack Evolution Program looks like engineering because it is using prototypes. Joe Hildebrand stated that one of the IAB’s roles is to do architecture, and that requires laying out the big picture and figuring out how to get there. One way to do that is to use prototypes, but that does not mean that protocol used in the prototypes is what people should do engineering around; the prototype is merely a tool used to help lay out the architecture so that the IAB knows what engineering it needs to ask the IETF to do.


The IAB agreed that having separate pieces of the work happen on different mailing lists was confusing the issue, and that the purposes of those mailing lists needs to be clarified.


The IAB will discuss this topic further later in the week.


### 5. Post-CARIS Brainstorming


The IAB briefly reviewed the slides to be presented during the IETF 93 Technical Plenary about the CARIS workshop.


There are several proposals about how to handle coordinating attack response at Internet scale; however, there is not one community to review those proposals. The CARIS workshop was a step in the right direction, getting the interested parties in the room together. There is an open action item to figure out how to continue this collaboration.


