
IAB Business Meeting, 2015-07-24, Prague, Czech Republic
--------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)


### Guests:


* Ramki Krishnan, NFVRG Chair
* Diego Lopez, NFVRG Chair
* Dirk Kutscher, INCRG Chair
* Börje Ohlman, INCRG Chair
* Dave Oran, INCRG Chair


### 1. Potential impact of ITU-T FG IMT-2020 work on ICNRG


The IAB discussed a potential overlap of work between the Information-Centric Networking Research Group (ICNRG) and the ITU-T’s Focus Group on IMT-2020. Since the ICNRG is a Research Group, it is not set up to send or receive liaisons from other organizations. Currently messages are being filtered through the IETF Liaison to the ITU-T.


Dirk Kutscher noted that there is pressure on the ICNRG to create an IETF Working Group on this topic to keep the overall protocol design within the IETF; there is not consensus in the RG yet about whether or not to do this. IPR disclosures on essential technologies complicate matters.


The IAB agreed that there is no action to be taken at this time, but will continue to monitor the situation.


### 2. IRTF Review: Network Function Virtualization Research Group (NFVRG)


Ramki Krishnan and Diego Lopez, co-chairs of the IRTF’s Network Function Virtualization Research Group (NFVRG), gave an overview of the RG’s activities.


NFVRG currently has 12 live drafts; 2 have been adopted so far. The current RG activity is focusing on:


* resource management
* analytics for visibility and orchestration
* virtualized network functions (VNF) performance modeling to facilitate transition to NFV
* security and service verification


Alia Atlas noted that there is current work on service function chaining security that may be useful input back to the NFVRG.


