
Minutes of the 2015-10-21 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Two additional items were added to the agenda.


The IAB approved an adjusted teleconference schedule for November and December. Cindy Morgan will update the calendar.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 October 2015 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IAB Schedule at IETF 94


The joint IAB/IESG meeting scheduled for Monday morning at IETF 94 was canceled. Instead, the IAB will use that time for a dry run of the technical plenary presentations. Cindy Morgan will follow up to adjust the catering order.


Ted Hardie noted that there was interest from the Glass to Glass Internet Ecosystem (GGIE) community; some people from the Names and Identifiers Program will meet with them on Tuesday during lunch.


### 3. BOF/PRG Coverage at IETF 94


The IAB agreed to the following BOF and PRG coverage:


* Internet Storage Sync (iss): Marc Blanchet and Joe Hildebrand will cover.
* Proposed How Ossified is the Protocol Stack? Research Group (hopsrg): Joe Hildebrand and Andrew Sullivan will cover. Brian Trammell is one of the co-chairs.
* Proposed Human Rights Protocol Considerations Research Group (hrpc): Erik Nordmark, Andrew Sullivan, and Suzanne Woolf will cover.
* Proposed Network Machine Learning Research Group (nmlrg): Brian Trammell will cover.
* Proposed Thing-to-Thing Research Group (t2trg): Dave Thaler will cover the Sunday morning session only; Andrew Sullivan will also cover parts of it, but Sunday afternoon conflicts with IAB meetings.


### 4. IETF 94 Tech Plenary


Cindy Morgan noted that there will be a technical plenary dry run following the IAB meeting.


Brian Trammell will put together a one-paragraph description of the technical topic to use for communications outreach.


### 5. draft-halpern-iab-rfc5741bis


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-halpern-iab-rfc5741bis as an IAB-stream document.


### 6. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


Dave Thaler reported that Erik Nordmark has submitted a new revision of draft-iab-filtering-considerations to address the open issues from the community review. He asked the IAB to review the document before the Sunday lunch meeting at IETF 94; at that time, the IAB will decide whether an agenda item is needed to discuss the document further.


### 7. Public Program Lists


The IAB agreed to create public discussion lists for all technical IAB Programs. Cindy Morgan will check and create the public lists for any technical Programs that do not already have one.


Ted Hardie and Suzanne Woolf will draft text to explain the purpose of the discussion lists as they relate to the internal Program lists.


### 8. Update from ICANN Meeting on IANA Transition


Jari Arkko reported that the IANA Stewardship Transition Coordination Group (ICG) is wrapping up their work, and is wondering if they will have a role in the implementation phase of the IANA transition. The Cross Community Working Group on Enhancing ICANN Accountability (CCWG) is still a hot spot, but progress is being made towards finalizing the accountability plan.


Andrew Sullivan noted that IANA Evolution Program is working on potential comments to the proposed changes to the ICANN bylaws; once the Program comes to agreement, the IAB will need to approve the comments.


Andrew Sullivan reported that there is new work in ICANN on the Registration Data Directory Service (RDDS) and WHOIS policy development. Given the implications for privacy and security, the IAB should pay attention to this work. Andrew will forward information on this topic to the Privacy and Security Program for review.


