
IAB Business Meeting 
Thursday, 5 November 2015 
Yokohama, Japan
----------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Guest:


* Daniel King, Software Defined Networking Research Group Chair


### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


### 1. IRTF Review: Software Defined Networking Research Group (SDNRG)


Daniel King, chair of the Software Defined Networking Research Group (SDNRG), gave an overview of the RG’s activities.


The RG’s origins came out of a side meeting at IETF 81, followed by a BOF at IETF 82. The group then met as a Proposed WG at IETF 84 before being chartered as a Research Group in early 2013. As initially chartered, the areas of interest included architecture, solution scalability, abstractions, and programming languages and paradigms. The explicit goal of the SDNRG is to provide a forum for researchers to investigate key and interesting problems in the SDN field.


The SDNRG has published RFC 7426, “Software-Defined Networking (SDN): Layers and Architecture Terminology,” and is currently working on a number of additional documents (see <[https://datatracker.ietf.org/rg/ sdnrg/documents/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/rg/%20sdnrg/documents/)>).


Daniel King noted that much of the effort so far has been work on bridging the gap between SDN and NFV.


Russ Housley observed that the SDNRG has been meeting at every IETF meeting, and asked if the RG has met in between. Daniel King replied that they have not recently, but that they do need more cross-fertilization between the IETF and more academic conferences. Co-location is one of the SDNRG’s goals for the future. The RG is also considering collaboration with some of the big open-source projects.


Lars Eggert reported that he is in the process of appointing a second co-chair for the SDNRG.


The slides presented during this review are available online at: <<https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2015/11/sdnrg-ietf94.pdf>>


### 2. IP Stack Evolution Program


The IAB agreed to add Natasha Rooney to the IP Stack Evolution Program.


### 3. draft-iab-rfc5741bis


The IAB agreed to review draft-iab-rfc5741bis by the next IAB teleconference to see if it is ready for community review.


### 4. Program Mechanics


Ted Hardie took an action item to write up a summary of the Program mechanics discussion thus far, outlining the options.


### 5. SIGCOMM Workshop


Brian Trammell noted that he is working on a proposal for a workshop at SIGCOMM in August 2016 as a follow up to the SEMI workshop.


### 6. IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop


Dave Thaler reported that the team working on the IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop is looking for a company to host the workshop in Silicon Valley in March 2016.


### 7. INIP


Suzanne Woolf reported that that the IAB Names and Identifiers Program has had several offers to host a workshop, but it is not yet clear what the scope would be or whether the agenda would overlap with the Program’s current direction.


### 8. Post-MaRNEW


Brian Trammell noted that there is pressure from the operator community to get something like Substrate Protocol for User Datagrams (SPUD) shipped as soon as possible.


Erik Nordmark asked what a reasonable time frame would be. Joe Hildebrand replied that they still need to come up with a firm set of security requirements and how those might be rendered into the design. Brian Trammell added that the team working on the requirements document thinks that they might be ready for an informational BOF at IETF 96 in Berlin.


The IAB discussed what can be done in the meantime, and agreed to publish an IAB statement that states that the IAB is working on the problem and outlines the current timeline. Brian Trammell will work on the first draft of this statement.


### 9. IRTF Chair


Lars Eggert noted that his term as IRTF Chair will end in March 2017. The IAB agreed to start the call for nominations for the IRTF Chair position in July 2016.


### 10. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


Via email, the IAB approved draft-iab-filtering-considerations for publication as an Informational RFC. Cindy Morgan will sent an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 11. Executive Session: Report from IPROC


A report from the IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC) was discussed in an executive session.


