
Minutes of the 2015-09-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Russ Housley
* Joe Hildebrand
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Ted Hardie


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The item on draft-iab-strint-report was removed from the agenda, as there were no updates since the last meeting.


The item on the IP Stack Evolution Program was removed from the agenda, as the discussions on the mailing list are still in progress.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 26 August 2015 business meeting were approved.


### 2. draft-iab-xml2rfcv2


Dave Thaler indicated that he is still reviewing the document, but that he will submit at least one comment before the end of the day, noting an update needed to section 2.4 to reflect the current list of Areas. Heather Flanagan will take those comments back to the author for incorporation into a new revision.


### 3. draft-iab-strint-report


This item was removed from the agenda at the beginning of the meeting.


### 4. Technical Programs at the IETF 94 Plenary


The IAB discussed work in the technical IAB Programs that could be considered for a possible plenary topic.


#### 4.1. Internationalization


Joe Hildebrand noted that there is not enough active participation in the Internationalization Program to build a plenary topic at this time. Andrew Sullivan noted that the Program had volunteered to do a tutorial on Sunday at IETF 94, but that it is not clear if there will be anyone available to present, as the tutorials conflict with an IAB meeting. Brian Trammell observed that he had been able to present a tutorial in the past, but his co-presenter was not an IAB member, and the IAB agenda for the conflicting meeting had been re-ordered to accommodate this.


Andrew Sullivan asked the IAB to consider the overall health of the Internationalization Program, and to start a discussion about additional potential members.


#### 4.2. IP Stack Evolution


Brian Trammell proposed a topic on Internet measurement as it relates to data-driven protocol engineering and work in the proposed “How Ossified is the Protocol Stack?” Research Group (HOPSRG). Brian noted that he will be giving a keynote presentation on measurement tools and techniques at RAIM prior to IETF that could be used as an introduction to the topic. The IAB agreed that this sounds like a good topic; Brian will reach out to potential speakers. Andrew Sullivan noted that he has some contacts as well, and will follow up with them.


Brian Trammell will put together a more refined proposal and send it to the IAB.


#### 4.3. Names and Identifiers


Suzanne Woolf reported that the work in the Names and Identifiers Program is just beginning, and there is not yet enough traction on any one topic to put together a plenary presentation. She asked the IAB members of the Program to follow up with the discussion on the Program mailing list.


#### 4.4. Privacy and Security


Russ Housley said that the Web PKI work might make an interesting plenary topic in the future, but more work needs to happen before it gets to that point.


Dave Thaler suggested that something around the “Current Hostname Practice Considered Harmful” draft might make a viable topic if paired with something else; Suzanne Woolf noted that it relates to work in the Names and Identifiers Program. Dave and Suzanne will work together offline to develop this idea.


### 5. Stack Evolution Program


This item was removed from the agenda at the beginning of the meeting.


### 6. IANA Transition Update


Russ Housley indicated that he had one addition and several editorial changes to the IAB response to the ICG proposal. He will send those out after this call, and Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote on the IAB response to the ICG proposal.


The IAB discussed the IAB response to the CCWG-Accountability proposal, and how to tailor their message so that it says what the IAB needs it to say in a way that is constructive to the process. Russ Housley noted that the most important thing the CCWG proposal needs to do at this point is address the 7 requirements laid out in the CWG proposal.


Based on this discussion, Andrew Sullivan will update the text for the proposed IAB response to the CCWG proposal and send it out to the IAB for further review.


### 7. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Marc Blanchet, Joe Hildebrand, Russ Housley, and Brian Trammell agreed to be on the interview team for the ICANN NomCom appointment. Marc Blanchet will work with Cindy Morgan to send out the call for feedback on the nominees. Cindy will send out a Doodle poll to the interview team to find times when everyone is available. Based on the results of that poll, interview slots will be offered to the candidates.


