
Minutes of the 2015-01-07 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### PRESENT


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Alissa Cooper (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley (IAB Chair)
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### REGRETS


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Alexey Melnikov (RSOC Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan will send out a reminder for the ISOC Board of Trustees call for nominations later this week.


Cindy Morgan reminded IAB members to make their hotel reservations for IETF 92 as soon as possible.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


Cindy Morgan and Eliot Lear will follow up with Joseph Bonneau regarding a tech chat on HSTS/pinning for 14 January 2015.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 December 2014 IAB business meeting were approved.


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 92


Mary Barnes and Dave Thaler presented an outline for a potential plenary topic on smart object architecture. Mary noted that Hannes Tschofenig is giving a related presentation soon and has slides that can be used as a starting point. Mary will invite Hannes to a tech chat on 28 January 2015 to discuss this further. In the meantime, Mary and Dave will work to refine this further as a plenary topic for IETF 92 or IETF 93.


### 3. draft-iab-iana-principles


The IETF review of draft-iab-iana-principles ended on 5 January 2015. Russ Housley is working to clean up the last editorial nits.


Jari Arkko asked if the document had been reviewed outside of the IETF community. After discussion, the IAB agreed that Jari will send the document to the IANA Stewardship Transition Coordination Group (ICG) for additional review. Russ Housley will also send the document to the I\* list for additional review.


### 4. IANA Program


The IAB approved adding Suzanne Woolf to the IANA Program. Cindy Morgan and Andrew Sullivan will coordinate offline to update the website and mailing list.


### 5. Internationalization Statement


The IAB discussed a potential IAB statement regarding confusable characters where locale information is not carried with the identifier. The discussion will continue via email.


### 6. draft-iab-filtering-considerations


Dave Thaler reported that he has been working with Erik Nordmark and Eliot Lear to review the open tickets on draft-iab-filtering-considerations. Several of the comments received during the IETF community review related to things that are not currently in the document, or that would require significant reorganization. The IAB agreed that getting a document out in a timely fashion was important. Given the timeline, the IAB discussed finishing up draft-iab-filtering-considerations as currently organized, and starting work on an additional document to augment it.


### 7. Executive Session: NomCom Report on the IESG


Joel Halpern recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. In accordance with RFC 2850, Jari Arkko also departed. The NomCom report on the IESG was discussed in an executive session.


