
Minutes of the 2015-08-05 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Russ Housley
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No changes were made to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 July 2015 business meeting were approved.


The minutes of the IETF 93 Technical Plenary and the business meetings of 23 July 2015 and 24 July 2015 remain under review. Cindy Morgan reported that she hopes to have drafts of the minutes for the remaining business meetings from IETF 93 posted by the end of the week.


### 2. draft-iab-strint-report


Marc Blanchet reported via email prior to the meeting that he is waiting for a response from his co-authors on the late comments received for draft-iab-strint-report.


### 3. draft-iab-semi-report


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-semi-report as an Informational RFC. Andrew Sullivan will send the document to the RFC Editor.


### 4. draft-iab-doi


Heather Flanagan reported that the author has a new revision of draft-iab-doi ready to post that addresses the comments that were received about the document content during the community review process, and asked if there was anything else. The IAB requested that an “Internationalization Considerations” section be added to the document.


### 5. draft-iab-xml2rfcv2


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-xml2rfcv2 out for community review. Heather Flanagan requested that the rfc-interest list be included in that message. Andrew Sullivan will send out the community review message.


### 6. Boilerplate and Tools (Update to RFC 5741)


The IAB noted that there are several RFC boilerplates that the tools need to know about, and that an update to RFC 5741 may be needed. Robert Sparks will raise the issue with the RSOC and ask for a recommendation about how to handle this.


### 7. Recognizing RFC 1984 as a BCP


Ted Hardie noted that the IAB is listed as a co-author of RFC 1984, and that the IESG is currently considering a status-change to move that document from Informational to Best Current Practice. He suggested that the IAB might want to make a statement during the status-change Last Call to indicate whether the IAB supports that change.


Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote asking whether the IAB supports the IESG changing RFC 1984 to a BCP.


### 8. Q4 ICANN Stakeholder Call


Marc Blanchet will write up a summary of his personal view of current IETF activities and send that to ICANN as input to their Q4 stakeholder call.


### 9. INIP Membership


The IAB members who were present at the meeting approved adding Jon Peterson, Wendy Seltzer, and Lixia Zhang to the INIP. Since there were three voting members absent, Suzanne Woolf will send an email to the IAB asking at least one of the absent IAB members to give their non-objection.


Cindy Morgan and Suzanne Woolf will add text to the IAB wiki codifying how non-IAB members are added to Programs.


### 10. Organizational visions of IETF future


Jari Arkko reported that he is working to come up with a clear description of the goals for a proposed design team on the organizational vision of the IETF future.


