
Minutes of the 2015-03-24 IAB Business Meeting, Dallas, Texas, USA
------------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joel Halpern
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Eliot Lear
* Xing Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


### Guest:


* Kathy Brown


### 1. Liaison Manager to ITU-T for MPLS


With Deborah Brungard taking a position as a Routing Area Director, she will be stepping down as the liaison manager to the ITU-T for MPLS. After discussion, the IAB decided not to fill the position for now, with Scott Mansfield (overall liaison manager to ITU-T) providing oversight as necessary.


### 2. Liaison Relationship with Thread


The IAB discussed a potential liaison relationship with Thread <[http://www.threadgroup.org/](http://www.threadgroup.org/ "Thread")>. Further discussion will take place in the Liaison Oversight Program meeting later this week.


### 3. Stack Evolution Program Membership


The IAB agreed to add David Black, Spencer Dawkins, and Aaron Falk to the IP Stack Evolution Program. Eliot Lear and Xing Li will remain on the Program after their IAB terms end.


### 4. I\* Coordination


The I\* coordination group will meet in London prior to the IAB retreat. Andrew Sullivan will attend the meeting as IAB Chair; the IAB discussed who would be the best choice to accompany Andrew to that meeting. The discussion will continue via email, with a decision to be made by the end of the week.


