
Minutes of the 2015-08-26 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Russ Housley
* Ted Hardie
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan updated the IAB on the status of the move of i1b.org; the change is currently waiting on the transfer of the domain name to the registrar that handles the other IETF-related domains.


An item on a possible “Data Sharing with Internet of Things” workshop was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 24 July 2015, 5 August 2015, and 12 August 2015 business meetings were approved.


### 2. IETF 94 Plenary


The IAB discussed potential technical topics for the IETF 94 Plenary.


Andrew Sullivan will follow up on an invitation that was previously sent to a potential speaker and see if there is a response.


The IAB Leads of technical Programs will come up with a brief summary of work going on in their Programs for consideration as possible plenary topics; the IAB will discuss this further at their next meeting.


Brian Trammell noted that he has been thinking about a potential plenary topic on measurement, but that he does not think that it could be put together in time for IETF 94. He will send a write-up on the topic for consideration for a future plenary.


### 3. draft-iab-strint-report


Marc Blanchet reported that he has received comments back from his co-authors, and is working on an updated version of draft-iab-strint-report.


### 4. draft-iab-doi


The IAB approved draft-iab-doi for publication as an Informational RFC. Andrew Sullivan will forward the document to the RFC Editor.


### 5. Stack Evolution Program


The IAB discussed potential updates to the IP Stack Evolution Program description. Brian Trammell will start an email thread with the IAB and Program mailing lists to continue the discussion. Brian asked that this topic also be added to the next IAB agenda.


### 6. Data Sharing with Internet of Things Workshop


Dave Thaler proposed an IAB workshop on “Data Sharing with Internet of Things (IoT)”, while noting the title may change. The proposed workshop topic is about trying to align device-specific information models which today are defined multiple times by different bodies. This topic follows up on the problem presented in the IETF 92 plenary and discussed at the IAB Retreat. The IAB agreed that this workshop sounded like a reasonable idea; Dave will work with Jari Arkko, Ralph Droms, and Hannes Tschofenig to refine the workshop proposal and begin putting together a Program Committee. It was suggested that it may be good to co-locate with some IoT event where members of multiple IoT related SDOs and alliances might already be present.


### 7. IANA Transition Update


Jari Arkko reported that the IANAPLAN Working Group recently held a brief virtual interim meeting to discuss their response to the ICG proposal; the discussions continue on the IANAPLAN mailing list.


Andrew Sullivan reported that he will be asking the IAB to weigh in on responses to the ICG proposal, as well as a response to the ICANN CCWG-Accountability proposal. He noted that the time to respond to these proposals is fairly short, and asked that IAB members be prompt in sending in their comments.


### 8. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Cindy Morgan will update the subscribers on the icann-nomcom-vote mailing list and forward the nomination statements to the list.


