
IAB Business Meeting 
Sunday, 1 November 2015 
Yokohama, Japan
--------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Guests:


* Olaf Kolkman
* Sally Wentworth


### 1. Closed vs Open Workshops


The IAB discussed the current level of transparency for IAB workshops, and whether they can be made more open by using things like audio streaming. The IAB concluded that it would depend on the topic of the workshop, and that it should be up to the workshop program committee to decide what is appropriate for that workshop.


Joe Hildebrand and Brian Trammell took and action to update the internal wiki page on IAB workshop guidelines to reflect this discussion. Joe and Andrew Sullivan will follow up with a response to the thread on the IETF discussion list on this topic.


### 2. WSIS+10 briefing


Sally Wentworth briefed the IAB on the upcoming WSIS+10 summit. ISOC is maintaining a matrix of the positions of world governments on WSIS+10 at <<http://www.internetsociety.org/wsis/matrix>>.


Andrew Sullivan asked if ISOC needed anything from the IAB in preparation for WSIS+10. Sally Wentworth replied that most of the issues are at the political level, rather than the technical level.


### 3. IAB Chair Devolution


The IAB discussed the role of the IAB Chair, noting two ongoing issues:


* The IAB Chair role workload is very high (more than 50% time)
* There is a perception by some outside the IETF that the IAB Chair is more like a CEO position, when in fact the IAB acts on the consensus of the full IAB rather than the discretion of the IAB Chair.


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to consider ways to redistribute the load of the IAB Chair, while ensuring that the inquiries to the IAB are responded to with the appropriate expertise. It will start this without making any changes to its charter, using mechanisms already in place. The IAB also agreed to delegate more work into the IAB Programs.


### 4. Program Mechanics


The discussion on Program mechanics was deferred to later in the week due to time constraints.


