
IAB Business Meeting, 2015-07-23, Prague, Czech Republic
--------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


### 1. draft-iab-strint-report


draft-iab-strint-report will be updated to address the comments received during community review.


### 2. draft-iab-semi-report


Brian Trammell posted a new revision of draft-iab-semi-report that addresses the outstanding comments. Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote to approve the document.


### 3. draft-iab-2870bis


Marc Blanchet asked the IAB if they would support adding the following requirement to draft-iab-2870bis:



```
  MUST implement EDNS(0) [RFC6891].
```

The IAB had no objection to adding this requirement.


### 4. RFC Editor-related tools drafts and the publication process


The IAB discussed better ways to process RFC Editor-related tools drafts, noting the ongoing discussion about draft-iab-doi.


After discussion, the IAB agreed to handle such documents by publishing two RFCs; the initial RFC would contain the requirements for the programming efforts, and the later -bis version would note any changes made to those requirements during the implementation process. Since backwards compatibility will be a concern for some of these drafts, the initial RFCs will include a note that work is progressing in a certain direction, but to be aware that things could change in the future.


Heather Flanagan, Joe Hildebrand, and Robert Sparks took an action to write up the proposal on how to handle such documents.


