
Minutes of the 2015-05-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)  

Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


##### Guest:


* Scott Mansfield (through item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that there will be a tech chat on security for connected vehicles on Thursday, 28 May 2015.


#### 1.3. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


#### 1.4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 13 May 2015 business meeting were approved pending the addition of an item to note that there was an executive session at the end of the call.


### 2. ITU TSAG contribution


Scott Mansfield briefed the IAB on the upcoming ITU-T TSAG meeting being held in Geneva in early June.


The TSAG is expected to evaluate a proposal for a new Study Group on the Internet of Things. There is also a proposal for a new Focus Group on IMT-2020 and mobile technologies to be folded into Study Group 13. There is potential for overlap with 3GPP, ETSI, and IETF work in this space, so scoping this work will be important.


Additional contributions to this meeting include work on developing a standardization roadmap for all communications (Internet, telephony, etc.), as well as simplifying the organization of work within the ITU-T by updating the A series documents <[http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/ recommendations/index.aspx?ser=A](http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/%20recommendations/index.aspx?ser=A)>.


### 3. IETF 93 Technical Plenary


The IAB agreed to defer discussion of the IETF 93 Technical Plenary until after the second tech chat on connected vehicles.


### 4. IANA Transition


Jari Arkko reported that there has been discussion on the IANAPLAN WG mailing list about how the Cross Community Working Group (CWG)’s plan will impact the IETF. Russ Housley added that the IANA Stewardship Transition Coordination Group (ICG) is planning to send a message to the IANAPLAN WG asking how much time the IETF believes it will need to complete their portions of the transition proposal prior to the expiration of the NTIA contract.


Andrew Sullivan noted that the only piece left for the IETF to do is to sign the SLA with ICANN. Ted Hardie observed that ICANN needs permission from NTIA before they can sign the updated SLA; once that permission has been given and the SLA has been signed, the transition for the protocol parameters is essentially complete.


### 5. Stack Evolution Program


The IAB agreed to add the SPUD requirements document as a work item for the Stack Evolution Program. Brian Trammell will draft an update to the Program description to reflect this additional work item.


The IAB agreed to add Ken Calvert and Eric Rescorla to the Stack Evolution Program. Brian Trammell and Cindy Morgan will follow up with them to get them added to the Program web page and mailing list.


### 6. draft-trammell-semi-report


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-trammell-semi-report as an IAB-stream document. Brian Trammell will submit a new revision as draft-iab-semi-report. Once the draft-iab-semi-report version is posted, Andrew Sullivan will send it out the IETF for community review.


### 7. draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-threat


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-threat as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Andrew Sullivan will forward the document to the RFC Editor for publication.


### 8. draft-iab-strint-report


The IAB approved sending draft-iab-strint-report out for community review pending edits to be made by Marc Blanchet.


### 9. Other Business


Ted Hardie reported that draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality- mitigations-00 is currently being discussed on the Perpass mailing list; early review is welcome.


Russ Housley noted that draft-iab-crypto-alg-agility is currently being discussed on the SAAG mail list; the document will be progressed as a BCP on the IETF Stream.


