
Minutes of the 2016-06-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Robert Sparks


##### Guest:


* Constance Bommelaer (present for item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An executive session was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 25 May 2016 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Internet Collaboration List


Constance Bommelaer briefed the IAB on the history and intent of the Internet collaboration email list. During the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in 2003-2004, ISOC was asked to facilitate dialogue and information sharing amongst the Internet technical community. The list was intended to be an informal platform for the technical community. Since then, the effort has evolved, with the group also being asked to provide volunteers for various Internet Governance working groups such as the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG). Over the years, the platform worked on developing clear criteria for these processes, making them publicly available and ensuring the calls for applications are broadly distributed.


The group was also recently asked to submit representatives to the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) retreat on the future of the Internet Governance Forum (IGF). Because the timeline for these requests is generally quite short, it is difficult to run the selection processes in a reasonably open and transparent way.


Ted Hardie observed that it sounds like something that started out as an informal activity has evolved into more of a standing body, and asked whether that change was intentional.


Constance Bommelaer replied that the group was always intended as a loose platform with no legal existence. A website was established <<http://www.internetcollaboration.org/>> to help explain what the group actually is and does, but there is no desire to institutionalize the platform.


Suzanne Woolf observed that there is currently some discomfort in that there is the appearance that this informal group is being tasked with choosing the representatives for the Internet technical community, but the entire community is not in the room or even always aware that representatives are being chosen. She noted that better visibility into how these activities are managed would help ease some of that discomfort.


Constance Bommelaer replied that the group does not seek to have the status of any kind of institution. The group is open and participation from the IAB is important. The Internet collaboration group cannot and does not claim to be the sole source of input from the technical community. To provide transparency, when a request for nominations comes in, they have started publishing the criteria and description of the position on the website.


### 3. CARIS Workshop Report


The IAB approved the CARIS workshop report for community review, pending the submission of an updated version as draft-iab-caris-report.


### 4. NomCom Expertise


The IAB discussed the IAB job description provided to the NomCom. Based on the discussion, Brian Trammell will update the job description and send it out to the IAB for further review.


### 5. Travel Issue with IAB-appointed Volunteer Positions


The IAB discussed a question posed on the IETF discussion list about whether the inability to attend a meeting would disqualify one from volunteering for an IAB-appointed position if, for example, the meeting was held in an area with anti-LGBT laws. The IAB agreed to more explicitly note when travel is expected for volunteer commitments. The IAB also agreed that if a volunteer could not attend a specific meeting for personal reasons, that the IAB would request that remote participation facilities be made available.


### 6. ICANN SLA


Andrew Sullivan reported that there is agreement on the ICANN SLA, with an adjustment to the agreement’s effective date. The new SLA will be effective either at the end of September 2016 or when the IANA transition is approved by NTIA.


### 7. Executive Session: UN-DESA Retreat


The UN-DESA Retreat on the IGF was discussed in an executive session.


