
Minutes of the 2016-05-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ralph Droms
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Olaf Kolkman will be added to the IAB mailing list as a second point of contact with ISOC.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 4 May 2016 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
10 May 2016

Topics:

  I. WSIS Forum 2016
 II. UN CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation
III. ITU-D Study Group 2 Rapporteur Group meetings (Question 3/2 
Securing information and communication networks: Best practices for 
developing a culture of cybersecurity) (20 April 2016, Geneva)
 IV. An update on the Internet Society’s activities related to 
combatting spam
  V. Internet Society Q2 Community Forum (21 April 2016)
 VI. G7 ICT Ministerial
VII. IANA Transition
VIII. Tech Fellows Program for IETF 95
 IX. ISOC Tech Fellows to IETF - Survey
  X. IXP Development

I. WSIS Forum 2016
The focus at this year’s WSIS Forum was on meeting the Sustainable 
Development Goals by using ICTs. ISOC staff participated as speakers in 
a variety of sessions (12 in total), ranging from Enhanced Cooperation 
to bridging the digital gender gap. ISOC also organised three workshops 
on Spam, Youth, and Trust and Access. Raúl Echeberría delivered a strong 
statement in the opening session supporting the latter [1].  The Digital 
Watch platform, to which ISOC is a partner also provided reporting from 
all of the sessions [2].

[1] http://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2016/05/
multistakeholder-approaches-are-way-forward-remarks-wsis-forum-2016
[2] http://digitalwatch.giplatform.org/events/wsis-forum-2016

II. UN CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation
The Chair of the CSTD, Peter Major has announced the members of this new 
working group that follows the ten-year review of the WSIS. The aim of 
the group will be to discuss roles and responsibilities with regard to 
international public policy issues.

Representatives from the technical community and academia are as 
follows:
1. Mr. Nick ASHTON-HART, Consultant in international Internet related 
public policy and Associate Fellow, Geneva Centre for Security Policy
2. Ms Constance BOMMELAER, Senior Director, Global Internet Policy, the 
Internet Society
3. Mr. Nigel HICKSON, Vice-president, UN and NGO Engagement, ICANN
4. Mr. Janvier NOULAYE, ICT Teacher, IT Manager & Consultant, University 
of Yaoundé
5. Dr. Jovan Kurbalija, Director DiploFOundation

The full list of members can be found here: 
http://unctad.org/en/pages/newsdetails.aspx?
OriginalVersionID=1245&Sitemap_x0020_Taxonomy=Commission%20on%20Science
%20and%20Technology%20for%20Development

III. ITU-D Study Group 2 Rapporteur Group meetings (Question 3/2 
Securing information and communication networks: Best practices for 
developing a culture of cybersecurity) (20 April 2016, Geneva)

At the invitation of the ITU and the SG2 Chair, we presented the 
Internet Society Collaborative Security approach, illustrating the 
application of the principles in the context of botnets. We also updated 
SG members on our activities and materials related to combatting spam.

IV. An update on the Internet Society’s activities related to combatting 
spam
The ITU and the Internet Society have a letter of agreement to 
collaborate on combatting the global problem of spam [1]. As part of 
that ongoing collaboration, the Internet Society and the ITU co-
organised a thematic workshop [2] at the 2016 WSIS Forum in Geneva on 6 
May 2016 to address the specific challenges faced by emerging economies. 
In partnership with M3AAWG and the London Action Plan, ISOC has 
completed online training resources that can be delivered as self paced 
tutorials or moderated online courses. Active promotion will start this 
month.

The anti-spam toolkit [3] on our website has had a refresh. We welcome 
suggestions for additional information and materials for this resource.  

[1] https://www.internetsociety.org/news/itu-and-internet-society-
collaborate-combat-spam
[2] https://www.itu.int/net4/wsis/forum/2016/Agenda/Session/152
[3] http://www.internetsociety.org/spamtoolkit

V. Internet Society Q2 Community Forum (21 April 2016)
This quarter’s community forum covered the topics of personal data 
protection and data breaches. It was an opportunity to introduce the 
topic of this year’s Global Internet Report and gather input on the 
issues and possible solutions. We had a very enthusiastic discussion 
aided by simultaneous French and Spanish interpretation and captions.

VI. G7 ICT Ministerial
On April 29, the Internet Society’s CEO and President, Kathy Brown, was 
invited to participate at the Multistakeholder Conference on ICT, which 
preceded and officially opened the proceedings of the G7 ICT Ministerial 
meeting. Kathy was asked to speak about multistakeholder governance in 
the context of cybersecurity. The contributions she made were then 
forwarded to the Ministers and informed their final deliberations. The 
Internet Society was the only NGO asked to contribute on issues of 
substance during the preparatory phase of the G7. The Internet Society 
was also the only international organization working on the Internet to 
be invited to participate in the Multistakeholder conference. Kathy’s 
focus on the conference was on moving forward the discussions on the 
multistakeholder model and on collaborative security. Details about her 
contributions can be found here: https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/
public-policy/2016/04/way-g7-ict-ministers-meeting-japan-
multistakeholder-approaches-needed and here: https://
www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2016/05/reflections-g7-ict-
ministers-meeting 

VII. IANA Transition
The Draft New ICANN Bylaws are currently out for a 30-day public comment 
from 21 April – 21 May to allow any interested party to review and 
provide feedback on the Bylaws. This timeline allows for comments to be 
analyzed and incorporated in time for the ICANN Board to consider 
adoption of the new ICANN Bylaws on or about 27 May 2016 by the ICANN 
Board. Once new Bylaws have been adopted, ICANN will notify NTIA. NTIA 
has stated that it needs to see that changes to the Bylaws have been 
adopted sufficient to implement the Transition Proposals before it can 
complete its review of the Transition Proposals. Once adopted, the 
Bylaws are expected to go into effect in the event NTIA approves of the 
IANA Stewardship Transition Proposal and the IANA Functions Contract 
expires.

VIII. Tech Fellows Program for IETF 95
The Tech Fellows Program for IETF 95 Buenos Aires was delivered 
successfully. There were 16 Fellows from 11 countries, including Brazil, 
Costa Rica, Bolivia, Venezuela, Argentina, India, Pakistan, Morocco, 
Ethiopia, and Benin.

A number of fellows presented/participated in working groups or other
activities.

- Nabil Benamar presented 2 drafts.
- Raphael Rosa presented 1 draft.
- Dessalegn Yehuala presented about his experience as the Chair of 
ICANN’s Ethiopic Script Rule Set initiative. A role for which he credits 
the fellowship as a key impetus.
- Ramanou Biaou participated in the Hackathon.
- Matheus Prola was involved in Codematch.

IX. ISOC Tech Fellows to IETF - Survey
ISOC is completing a survey of past Tech Fellows to IETF (2006-2015). 
The survey assesses:
(1) What are the subsequent contributions to IETF and open standards 
processes
(2) What former Fellows are doing to promote IETF and open standards in 
their communities - for example, academic research and remote hubs
(3) How they are currently engaged in other technical and policy 
discussions and with ISOC

Survey results will be used to (1) provide an update to ISOC staff, the 
Board, and IETF leadership and (2) refine the programme. The summary 
report will be available in June.

X. IXP Development
ISOC partnered with NSRC to provide BGP/IXP training in Islamabad, 
Pakistan from April 18-22. Pakistan has a strong technical and NREN 
community, and the Islamabad IXP likely will be launched in the next 5-6 
months.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas/Suresh Krishnan–


No report was received.


–End IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas/Suresh Krishnan–


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
* the DTNRG was closed

* the CFRG will have an interim meeting on May 12 at the Eurocrypt 
conference

* the NMRG, NFVRG and SDNRG are planning an additional joint session at 
IETF-96

* the proposed NMLRG is planning an interim on Jun 27 at the EuCNC 
conference

* there has been no visible activity in the NWCRG, and if that doesn't 
change, they may close

* the submissions deadline for the ACM/ISOC/IRTF ANRW workshop is coming 
up on May 16
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


Ted Hardie noted that only one nomination for IRTF chair has been accepted so far; there are two other outstanding nominations that have not yet been accepted. Ted asked the IAB to start encouraging nominations for IRTF Chair.


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Draft New ICANN Bylaws (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/draft-new-
bylaws-2016-04-21-en)
End: May 21st, 2016

Proposal for Khmer Script Root Zone Label Generation Rules (LGR) 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/khmer-lgr-2016-04-15-en)
End: May 28th, 2016

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

IANA stewardship transition
---------------------------

ICANN board has posted the draft ICANN bylaws for public comments. The 
public comment period is ongoing until May 21st. IAB has already 
submitted its comments on May 1st. In addition to the IAB comments, two 
minor comments have been posted so far. However, the comment period is 
still ongoing and there is a little over a week left. The CCWG on 
accountability is still preparing its comments and they are expected to 
be posted before the deadline.


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN board workshop May 14-16, 2016
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Liaison Report – 11 May 2016

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for the March 2016 monthly 
statistics report and 95% of processing goal times for the April 2016 
monthly statistics, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
goal times.  These times include the steps that the IANA Department has 
control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors 
or other experts.

- Protocol Parameters Annual Review report was delivered to the IPROC on 
March 25, 2016.  No exceptions were found by the third-party auditor.

Other News:

-  The IAB recently confirmed 2 requests for the top-level domain .arpa 
and second-level domain e164.arpa.  Both of these requests have been 
completed.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.6. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
Project Updates
- Format status (including planning for future tutorials)
The format documents are largely finished, with a few still outstanding 
as the authors finish validating the information via automated tests. 
While those documents are wrapping up, the RSE is starting to pull 
together a plan for tutorials on how to use the features described in 
the format documents to the best effect in an RFC. Exact details for the 
tutorials are, of course, dependent on the availability of the new 
tools. The tutorials are expected to be developed in consumable chunks, 
such that an author can either choose to read/view a specific component 
related to a specific feature, or read/view the full tutorial series for 
a solid grounding on how to create an I-D or RFC in the new format.

- Stats and Metrics project
The project is nearly complete, with the vendor and the RPC now working 
on some specific details of labeling and export of the graphs. The final 
report required is the errata report. The new code will be used to 
create the necessary reports for the next IETF meeting and to generate 
the figures that go on the reports summary pages. 

- Digital Signatures
The technical hurdles to digitally signing RFCs have been resolved. Russ 
Housley is updating draft-housley-rfc-and-id-signatures with the new 
details, and the RFC Production Center and Publisher are looking into 
the implementation details.

Face to Face meeting, May 2016
- The IETF, IAB, and IAOC chairs, as well as the IETF Administrative 
Director, the RFC Series Editor, and AMS met in Herndon, Virginia, to 
discuss current activities and relationships among the group. The RSE 
reported on the RFC Format project, discussed the issues and resolutions 
for the Digital Signatures project, and plans for future tutorials. The 
RSE also mentioned that we will review the new SLA numbers after a year 
to evaluate their validity against the expectations of the document 
streams.

Presentation at the Society for Scholarly Publishing
- The RSE will be presenting as part of a half-day seminar at the 
upcoming Society for Scholarly Publishing conference, to be held in 
Vancouver, BC. The topic of the workshop is standards in publishing. 
More information is available online at: https://www.sspnet.org/events/
annual-meeting-2016/2016-schedule/seminar-2-smart-linking-supplemental-
data/

RPC Report - https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

- Documents are moving steadily to AUTH48 from a surge in the EDIT queue 
late last year.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed the agenda for the 2016 IAB retreat.


### 4. Internationalization Program


The IAB approved the new text for the Internationalization Program description. Ted Hardie will follow up with potential new Program members and bring them back to the IAB for approval. The Internationalization Program web page will not be updated until the membership changes are completed.


### 5. ISOC Bylaws Change


The IAB approved the text for the IAB comments on the proposed changes to the ISOC Bylaws. Cindy Morgan will send the comments to ISOC.


### 6. IOTSU Workshop


The IAB approved the call for papers for the Internet of Things Software Update Workshop (IoTSU). Cindy Morgan will send out the call for papers and post a link to it on the IAB home page.


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


