
Minutes of the 2016-08-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Executive Sessions on the ICANN NomCom and the ISE Search were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 July 2016, 17 July 2016, and 21 July 2016 business meetings were approved.


A link to the IETF 96 Plenary minutes (in the IETF 96 Proceedings) will be added to the internal IAB wiki so that IAB members can review the IAB portions of those minutes.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB reviewed the current queue of potential technical plenary topics. Dave Thaler and Martin Thomson are still following up on additional speakers for a topic on IOT and Augmented Reality.


### 3. Technical Plenary Program


Lee Howard reported that he has started drafting text for a description of the proposed Technical Plenary Program. He will send that text out to the IAB for review.


### 4. August/September Teleconference Schedule


Cindy Morgan noted that there may be difficulty reaching quorum for some of the IAB teleconferences in August and September. She will start a thread on the IAB list to discuss alternate proposals.


### 5. RFC Format Drafts


The IAB approved the RFC Format Drafts for approval as Informational RFCs:


* “RFC Format Framework”, draft-iab-rfc-framework
* “The ‘XML2RFC’ version 3 Vocabulary”, draft-iab-xml2rfc
* “HyperText Markup Language Request For Comments Format”, draft-iab-html-rfc
* “Requirements for Plain Text RFCs”, draft-iab-rfc-plaintext
* “PDF for an RFC Series Output Document Format”, draft-iab-rfc-use-of-pdf
* “SVG Drawings for RFCs: SVG 1.2 RFC”, draft-iab-svg-rfc
* “The Use of Non-ASCII Characters in RFCs”, draft-iab-rfc-nonascii
* “CSS Requirements for RFCs”, draft-iab-rfc-css
* “RFC v3 Prep Tool Description”, draft-iab-rfcv3-preptool


Cindy Morgan will send the approval announcements to the RFC Editor. Heather Flanagan is drafting text for a message to go out to the rfc-interest list and be posted on the IAB home page.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN RZERC Appointment


The IAB selected Jim Reid as the IETF appointee to the ICANN RZERC. Cindy Morgan will send an announcement to the community.


### 7. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Appointment


The IRTF Chair appointment was discussed in an executive session. Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote with a Condorcet ballot.


### 8. Executive Session: IANA Transition


The IANA transition was discussed in an executive session. The IAB affirmed that Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, and Russ Housley are the representatives of the IETF in the negotiations among the operational communities and the IETF Trust in respect of agreements related to the IANA intellectual property rights.


### 9. Executive Session: W3C Liaison and IEEE-SA Liaison


The IETF liaisons to the W3C and the IEEE-SA were discussed in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom


The IETF appointment to the 2017 ICANN NomCom was discussed in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: ISE Search


The ISE search was discussed in an executive session.


