
Minutes of the 2016-11-30 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomsom
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2 November 2016 meeting were approved. The minutes of the 13 November 2016 and 17 November 2016 meetings remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program met in Seoul, and outlined potential topics for the next several technical plenaries. The Program is actively looking for speakers on some of these topics.


### 3. Public Comment on Registration Data Directory Services Consistent Labeling and Display Policy


The IAB discussed potential comments on the [Registration Data Directory Services Consistent Labeling and Display Policy](https://%20www.icann.org/public-comments/rdds-labeling-display-2016-10-21-en) . Russ Housley took an action to update the IAB’s comments based on the  

discussion, and send them out to the IAB for further review. Comments are due 12 December 2016.


### 4. IPv6 Statement Distribution


The IAB agreed on the list of organizations that should be sent a pointer about the IAB statement on IPv6. Lee Howard will send a message to the liaison managers of those organizations and ask them to make note of the IAB statement.


### 5. IAB Stream Document Stream Manager


Andrew Sullivan noted that the IAB Chair has been considered the default stream manager for the IAB RFC stream, and asked if this could be delegated. From the RFC Editor perspective, the stream manager is responsible for policy decisions relating to the IAB stream; the IAB agreed that it should be the IAB as a whole that makes any policy decisions, but that the stream manager would act as a liaison from the IAB to the RFC Editor.


After discussion, the IAB agreed to appoint Robert Sparks as the IAB Document Stream Manager. Robert will work with Cindy Morgan and AMS IT to set up a new email alias for the stream manager.


### 6. draft-iab-ccg-appoint-process


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-ccg-appoint-process out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the review message.


### 7. December/January Meeting Schedule


The IAB discussed how to adjust their teleconference schedule for the holidays. The IAB will not meet on 21 December 2016 or 28 December 2016. The first meeting in the new year will be on 4 January 2017.


### 8. draft-iab-protocol-transitions


Dave Thaler reported that he is working to update draft-iab-protocol-transitions based on the feedback received from the Internationalization Program, and that he plans to have the new revision out early next week.


### 9. Executive Session: ISO Standards


The IAB discussed ISO standards in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: IAOC Appointment


The IAB discussed their appointment to the IAOC in an executive session.


