
Minutes of the 2016-06-22 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


##### Guest:


* Valentin Heun (present for item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 June 2016 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Tech Chat: Open Hybrid


Valentin Heun from the MIT Media Lab joined the IAB to deliver a presentation on “Tools for Indistinguishable Realities.” [A presentation similar to the one given to the IAB is available on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xOrr9g34Y7c).


At the MIT Media Lab, Valentin Heun is working on a “reality editor” tool to give users more control over IoT devices. In this presentation, “indistinguishable realities” refers to a fusion of augmented reality, physical reality, the Internet of Things, and the World Wide Web.


The current IoT ecosystem has many silos and devices that do not really interconnect with each other. There is need for an abstraction layer, and a visual separation of devices into components. Once the devices are separated down into components, IoT devices could be set up such that, for example, pushing down the slider on a toaster starts a timer on a food processor, and once the timer goes off, it sends a notification to the user’s phone. The user would have a graphical interface that allows them precise control over the settings, and can have other devices opt in or out of services.


The World Wide Web works nicely for IoT because there are simple, reliable, and open standards for protocols, publishing languages, and identifiers. The reality editor, [Open Hybrid](http://www.openhybrid.org/), is built entirely on Web and Internet standards (HTML, CSS, JavaScript).


Ted Hardie asked how this handles different parts of the system having different security properties. Valentin Heun replied that it is heavily focused on the user interface side, with the system only working on local networks. This is an open question where Valentin is looking for more expertise.


Dave Thaler asked how the controls are overlaid onto a physical spot on an IoT device. Valentin Heun replied that the IoT devices have the service built into them, and the visual interface allows the user to select the right spot on the device.


Robert Sparks asked if they have experimented with having more than one user operating on the augmented space at the same time. Valentin Heun replied that they have had workshops where everyone can interact with the objects. Every time a new link is made, a notification is sent out. The access policy is that the last change wins.


The IAB thanked Valentin Heun for his presentation.


Later, the IAB discussed whether this would be an appropriate plenary topic, and concluded that it could be both informative and entertaining. Brian Trammell will ask Valentin Heun whether he is available to present during the IETF 96 plenary. Dave Thaler, Suresh Krishnan, and Martin Thomson will try to find an additional speaker on IoT.


### 3. RSOC Program Review


Robert Sparks updated the IAB on recent changes to the RSOC Program, since [the last RSOC review on 24 February 2016](https://www.iab.org/documents/minutes/minutes-2016/iab-minutes-2016-02-24/).


Alexey Melnikov stepped down from the RSOC to join the IESG. The IAB ran a call for nominations, and selected Adam Roach to join the RSOC.


RFC 7841 (formerly draft-iab-5741bis) on RFC Streams, Headers, and Boilerplates was published in May 2016, and [a website for headers and boilerplates was established](https://www.iab.org/documents/headers-boilerplate/).


The RSOC has been overseeing new projects on improvements to the RFC infrastructure and statistics and metrics.


The RSOC is also assisting with the development of an ISE transition plan, as well as assisting with the creation of digital signature procedures.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 96


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to add topics to the IAB business meeting agendas for IETF 96. She will send a reminder email out to the IAB list.


### 5. ZSK and KSK changes to the root zone


Ted Hardie reported that Duane Wessels requested to give a joint presentation with Matt Larson on upcoming ZSK and KSK changes to the root zone during the IETF 96 Plenary. The IAB discussed this and concluded that this topic would be better suited for a lunchtime session; Cindy Morgan will follow up with the Secretariat to see if there is a room available.


Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will schedule a tech chat between the IAB, Duane Wessels, and Ed Lewis.


### 6. Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level


Andrew Sullivan will draft text on the IAB response to the ICANN public comment on Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level and send it out to the Internationalization Program and the IAB for review.


This topic will be added back to the agenda of the next IAB business meeting (6 July 2016).


### 7. ETSI NGP ISG – White Paper


Discussion of the ETSI NGP ISG white paper was deferred to email due to time constraints.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN RZERC Appointment


Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion. The ICANN RZERC appointment was discussed in an executive session. Russ Housley, Andrew Sullivan, and Joe Hildebrand will interview the candidates. Cindy Morgan and Russ Housley will coordinate scheduling the interviews.


### 9. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Appointment


The IRTF Chair appointment was discussed in an executive session. Lars Eggert, Ted Hardie, Brian Trammell, and Suzanne Woolf will interview the candidates. Cindy Morgan will coordinate scheduling the interviews during IETF 96 pending the publication of the final meeting agenda.


