
Minutes of the 2016-11-17 IAB Business Meeting 
Seoul, South Korea
------------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


### Regrets:


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)  

Suzanne Woolf


### Guests:


* Avri Doria, Human Rights Protocol Considerations Research Group Chair
* Niels ten Oever, Human Rights Protocol Considerations Research Group Chair


### 1. IRTF Review: Human Rights Protocol Considerations (HRPC) Research Group


Niels ten Oever and Avri Doria updated the IAB on the current activities of the Human Rights Protocol Considerations (HRPC) Research Group. The group began in 2014 with the following goals:


* To expose the relation between protocols and human rights, with a focus on the rights to freedom of expression and freedom of assembly.
* To propose guidelines to protect the Internet as a human-rights-enabling environment in future protocol development, in a manner similar to the work done for Privacy Considerations in RFC 6973.
* To increase the awareness in both the human rights community and the technical community on the importance of the technical workings of the Internet and its impact on human rights.


At IETF 92, the HRPC conducted a number of interviews which eventually were used in the short documentary “Net of Rights,” <<https://hrpc.io/net-of-rights/>>.


The HRPC has one active internet-draft, draft-irtf-hrpc-research, “Research into Human Rights Protocol Considerations.” The document is expected to enter RG Last Call shortly.


With the work on draft-irtf-hrpc-research nearing completion, the HRPC is considering picking up additional work, including an anonymity draft, an association draft, and putting together an academic part and taking it to academic conferences.


### 2. draft-iab-protocol-transitions


The IAB discussed draft-iab-protocol-transitions, which was presented in the TSVAREA meeting at IETF 97. Brian Trammell took an action to elaborate on the section about what makes a good transition plan. Dave Thaler will update the case study on internationalized domain names based on input from the Internationalization Program.


### 3. Community Coordination Group


Russ Housley noted that the IAB needs to document their process for appointing people to the Community Coordination Group. Russ will draft a document that describes the process.


