
Minutes of the 2016-09-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No administrative items were discussed.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 31 August 2016 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB reviewed the list of possible future tech plenary topics. Joe Hildebrand took an action to try to schedule a tech chat on “Challenges to HTTPS Adoption in Media Websites.” Brian Trammell took an action to check in with Valentin Heun to see if he would be able to travel to IETF 97.


### 3. Proposed IPv6 Liaison statement


Discussion of the proposed IPv6 liaison statement was deferred to a future meeting.


### 4. Incoming IRTF Chair on IAB mailing list


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to add the incoming IRTF Chair, Allison Mankin, to the IAB mailing list two weeks before IETF 97, and to invite her to the IAB meetings at IETF 97. Allison’s term will begin at IETF 98.


### 5. ICANN 57


The IAB’s liaisons to the ICANN Technical Liaison group asked the IAB via email whether there are any particular topics that the IAB would like them to raise at the upcoming ICANN meeting. Andrew Sullivan noted that there may be a new proposal from RSSAC about naming in root servers that might need some attention, but it was unclear when that proposal might be available.


### 6. Upcoming Appointments by the IAB


Cindy Morgan noted that the IAB has several appointments to make in the coming months, including the IAOC, the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, and the ISOC Board of Trustees. Cindy will draft timelines for each of these appointment processes.


Ted Hardie will start a thread on the iab-vote list about desires for the next IAOC. An executive session on this topic will be added to the next IAB agenda.


### 7. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Cindy Morgan will send out a call for feedback on the incumbent IAB liaison to the ICANN NomCom.


### 8. Executive Session: IAB statement on the IANA Stewardship Transition


The IAB approved the IAB statement on the IANA Stewardship Transition in an executive session.


