
Minutes of the 2016-03-23 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Marc Blanchet


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to make their hotel reservations for the IAB Retreat. Andrew Sullivan noted that there is a 2-night minimum stay in order to get the IAB room rate.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2 March 2016 and the 9 March 2016 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. RFC Format Drafts


The community review period for the RFC Format drafts ended on 11 March 2016. Heather Flanagan has been tracking the comments received, and is waiting for the authors to submit revised versions of the documents. The RFC Format drafts will be put back on the agenda of the first IAB teleconference after IETF 95 for further discussion.


Noting that it is likely that the new IAB will be the ones approving the drafts, Andrew Sullivan asked the incoming IAB members to review the documents.


### 3. draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-mitigations


The IAB discussed draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-mitigations. Noting the comments received from the IAB thus far, the document will go back to the Privacy and Security Program for another round before it comes back to the IAB to discuss sending out for community review.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 95


The IAB finalized their agenda for IETF 95. Cindy Morgan will update the wiki and calendar accordingly, and follow up with the catering orders for the breakfast and lunch meetings.


### 5. BOF and PRG Coverage at IETF 95


The IAB agreed upon the following coverage for BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 95:


* MTGVENUE: Andrew Sullivan will cover the BOF.
* LPWAN: Dave Thaler will cover the BOF. Erik Nordmark is the BOF shepherd.
* ARCING: Ralph Droms and Dave Thaler will cover the BOF. Joe Hildebrand and Suzanne Woolf are the BOF chairs, and Andrew Sullivan is a BOF proponent. Brian Trammell will present in the BOF.
* ITS: Erik Nordmark, Andrew Sullivan, and Martin Thomson will cover  

the BOF. Russ Housley is one of the BOF chairs.
* BABEL: Erik Nordmark will cover the BOF.
* LURK: Joe Hildebrand, Russ Housley, Martin Thomson, and Brian Trammell will cover the BOF.
* ACCORD: Erik Nordmark, Robert Sparks, and Suzanne Woolf will cover the BOF. Ted Hardie, Joe Hildebrand, and Brian Trammell are BOF proponents.
* MAPRG: Lee Howard will cover the BOF. Brian Trammell will present in the BOF.
* NMLRG: Lee Howard will cover the BOF.


Dave Thaler asked the IAB if anyone was aware of Bar BOFs. Ted Hardie replied that he might know about one, but nothing has been confirmed yet. Lars Eggert noted that the people working on BANANA (Bandwidth Aggregation for interNet Access) are talking about meeting; he will forward the details to the IAB list.


### 6. IAB Meeting Time


The IAB agreed to change the time of their teleconferences to 0700 Pacific between IETF 95 and IETF 97. The IAB also tentatively agreed to change the time of their teleconferences to 1200 Pacific between IETF 97 and IETF 98. Cindy Morgan will update the calendar, wiki, and WebEx details accordingly.


### 7. Workshop Openness


Andrew Sullivan observed that he went looking in the IETF email archives for the message from the IAB about remote participation at IAB workshops, but was unable to find it. Several other people also were unable to find the message. Andrew and Joe Hildebrand will go back and send (or re-send) that message to the IETF community.


### 8. IANA Transition Oversight Task Force


Russ Housley volunteered to serve on the IANA Transition Oversight Task Force. Andrew Sullivan will put Russ in touch with the necessary people.


### 9. Liaison Oversight Program Review


Ralph Droms updated the IAB on the current state of the Liaison Oversight Program. The IETF maintains liaison relationships with a set of peer organizations to facilitate direct communications as needed for interactions and joint work. The IAB manages those liaison relationships, delegating that responsibility to the Liaison Oversight Program. RFC 4052 outlines the IAB processes for managing IETF liaison relationships.


Ralph Droms noted that there are requirements for setting up a formal liaison relationship: there must be a specific work item or objective, and a need to facilitate communication in order to meet that objective. In practice, liaison relationships are used for ongoing communication and coordination with some organizations, are sometimes requested for non-specific purposes, and sometimes last well past their original purpose.


The current list of liaison relationships and liaison managers is available on the IETF website at <https://www.ietf.org/liaison/managers.html>. Liaison managers are in charge of the liaison relationships. There is a lot of flexibility in how these relationships are conducted. Some report to the IAB periodically; others conduct regular activities through the relationship. Several have a more on-demand relationship.


The Liaison Oversight Program is responsible for the establishment, operation, and review of liaison relationships. It assigns IAB liaison shepherds and assists with the recruitment of liaison managers. It also develops, reviews, and updates processes related to liaison relationships.


Current Program hot spots include:


* Reviewing for dormant relationships
* Looking at new potential relationships (e.g., ZigBee Alliance and ITU-T SG17)
* Ongoing IEEE 802/IETF coordination (see <https://www.iab.org/activities/joint-activities/iab-ieee-coordination/>)
* ETSI NGP IGP


Dave Thaler noted that the IAB wiki page that lists liaison relationships is split into two sections: current formal liaison relationships and concluded liaison relationships. He suggested that it might be useful to add a third section to that page with details about organizations with which the IETF currently has informal interactions but no formal liaison relationship. Ralph Droms agreed to take that suggestion back to the Program for consideration.


### 10. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB selected a candidate for the RSOC in an executive session. Robert Sparks will notify all of the candidates, and Cindy Morgan will send out an announcement.


### 11. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees was discussed in an executive session.


