
Minutes of the 2016-07-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 June 2016 business meeting and the 22 June 2016 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


### 2. IANA Evolution Program Review


Russ Housley updated the IAB on recent changes to the IANA Evolution Program, since the last Program review on 10 February 2016 (see <<https://www.iab.org/documents/minutes/minutes-2016/iab-minutes-2016-02-10/>>).


The IANA Evolution Program has documented a framework for describing the management of Internet registries managed by the IANA, including terminology describing the various roles and responsibilities associated with management of Internet registry functions.


The IANA Evolution Program has reviewed documents and made recommendations to the IAB, including:


* Recommendation to fill seat on ICANN RZERC
* Recommendation to not fill seat on ICANN CSC
* [Comments on Draft ICANN Bylaw changes](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2016-2/iab-comments-on-draft-new-icann-bylaws/)
* [Review of Andrew Sullivan’s congressional testimony](https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2016/05/sullivan-to-senate-commerce-20160524.pdf)


Russ Housley noted that a pointer to the comments on the Draft ICANN Bylaw Changes needs to be added to the Program web page. There is also an ongoing discussion about re-wording the Program description so that it does not use the word “globalization.”


Moving forward, the IANA Evolution Program will have a role in tracking the implementation of the IANA transition. Post transition, the Program will need to watch CCWG Workstream 2.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 96


The IAB finalized their agenda for IETF 96. Cindy Morgan will update the wiki accordingly. IRTF Chair interviews will be scheduled during the Wednesday and Thursday morning breakfast slots.


Jari Arkko asked the IAB to send him any agenda topics for the joint IAB/IESG session on Sunday.


### 4. BOF/PRG Coverage at IETF 96


The IAB will cover BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 96 as follows:


* International Meeting Arrangements (imtg): Andrew Sullivan
* Intelligent Transportation Systems (its): Robert Sparks (Russ Housley is co-chairing the BOF)
* Low Latency Low Loss Scalable throughput (l4s): Ralph Droms, Dave  

Thaler
* Ledger (ledger): Robert Sparks, Martin Thomson
* Low-Power Wide Area Networks (lpwan): Erik Nordmark, Dave Thaler
* Limited Use of Remote Keys (lurk): Russ Housley, Robert Sparks, Martin Thomson
* Path Layer UDP Substrate (plus): Erik Nordmark, Robert Sparks (Brian  

Trammell is a proponent of this BOF)
* QUIC (quic): Erik Nordmark, Robert Sparks (Brian Trammell is co- chairing the BOF; Martin Thomson is involved in the BOF)
* Proposed Measurement and Analysis for Protocols Research Group (maprg): Brian Trammell
* Proposed Network Machine Learning Research Group (nmlrg): Lee Howard, Brian Trammell


### 5. ZSK and KSK changes to the Root Zone


A session on Upcoming ZSK and KSK Changes to the Root Zone will be held during IETF 96. The IAB will hear a preview of that talk during a tech chat on 13 July 2016. Andrew Sullivan will write a blog post to advertise the session.


### 6. Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level


The IAB discussed the draft text for the IAB comments on “Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level” and the associated “Evaluation of Deviation from the Reference Second Level LGRs.” Ted Hardie will send suggested text to Andrew Sullivan for incorporation in the next version. Andrew will send out an updated draft of the comments to the IAB.


### 7. ICANN RZERC Charter


The IAB briefly discussed the ICANN RZERC charter. The draft charter refers to the “Chair of the Internet Engineering Task Force, or Chair’s delegate” as having a seat on the committee. The IAB will appoint the IETF “Chair’s delegate” to the committee as part of the IAB’s liaison oversight role. The process used by the IAB to make this appointment will be documented once the initial committee is seated.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN RZERC Appointment


The IAB appointment to the ICANN RZERC was discussed in an executive session.


