
Minutes of the 2016-03-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to make their hotel reservations for the IAB Retreat.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 24 February 2016 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 95


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 95.


Lars Eggert reported that he is still waiting to hear if the DTNRG chairs are available for the IRTF research group review. Lars will also reach out to the T2TRG chairs to see if they are available as an alternative.


Noting that the Tuesday morning agenda was still empty, Ted Hardie asked if it would be possible to move the Privacy and Security Program meeting into that slot. The IAB agreed to make a decision about that by 23 March 2016.


### 3. IAB Liaisons


Robert Sparks agreed to be the IAB liaison to the IESG starting after the 2016 IESG Retreat.


Brian Trammell agreed to be the IAB liaison to the NomCom for 2016-2017.


### 4. draft-iab-irtf-chair-description


The IAB approved draft-iab-irtf-chair-description as an Informational RFC on the IAB Stream. Cindy Morgan will send the approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 5. IP Stack Evolution Program Review


Brian Trammell updated the IAB on the current state of the IP Stack Evolution Program. Program achievements since May 2014 include:


* Stack Evolution in a Middlebox Internet (SEMI) Workshop (January 2015)
	+ SEMI workshop report published as RFC 7663
* Managing Radio Networks in an Encrypted World (MaRNEW) Workshop (September 2015)
* IoT Semantic Interoperability (IOTSI) Workshop (scheduled for March 2016)
* Session Protocol for User Datagrams (SPUD) BOF at IETF 92 (March 2015)
* Alternatives to Content Classification for Operator Resource Deployment (ACCORD) BOF scheduled for IETF 95 (April 2016)
* How Ossified is the Protocol Stack Bar BOF, which led to the proposed Measurement and Analysis for Protocols (MAP) Research Group
* draft-iab-filtering-considerations (currently in AUTH48)


Brian Trammell reviewed the Program’s current active work items (see [https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/ip-stack-evolution-program/](https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/ip-stack-evolution-program/ "IP Stack Evolution Program"). He noted that draft-thaler-transition-principles needs attention from the Program to add case studies to the document.


The Program has a number of documents in progress:


* MaRNEW Workshop Report: draft-rooney-marnew-report (not yet submitted, text at https://github.com/MaRNEW/Report)
* Designing for Transition: draft-thaler-transition-principles
* Architectural Considerations for Transport Evolution with Explicit Path Cooperation: draft-trammell-stackevo-explicit-coop


Brian Trammell noted that several items that began in the Program have been explicitly moved elsewhere, as they have other natural homes. Brian asked if the Program description should be updated to reflect that those items have moved elsewhere. Dave Thaler opined that it might be useful to do so, as it could help in narrowing the Program scope.


The IAB discussed the Program’s responsibilities to those items that have moved out of the Program. Erik Nordmark suggested adding a “Results and References” section to the Program web page to show the work that was initially inside the Program. Brian Trammell observed that the stackevo-discuss list is the place to raise issues. He agreed to draft text describing how the Program reacts to architectural issues stemming from work that was spun out of the Program.


### 6. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB appointment to the RSOC was discussed in an executive session.


### 7. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees was discussed in an executive session.


