
Minutes of the 2016-05-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 7 April 2016 and the 27 April 2016 business meetings were approved.


### 2. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed the agenda for the 2016 IAB retreat. Cindy Morgan will update the draft agenda based on the discussion and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 3. ICANN Bylaws Response


The IAB approved the text for the IAB comments on the draft new ICANN Bylaws. Andrew Sullivan will send the comments to ICANN.


### 4. Internationalization Program


The IAB discussed proposed changes to the Internationalization Program description. Ted Hardie and Suzanne Woolf will meet offline to discuss further, and then Ted will send the updated text out to the IAB.


### 5. ISOC Bylaws Change


The IAB discussed the proposed changes to the ISOC Bylaws, and how those would affect draft-iab-rfc3677bis.


Ted Hardie suggested sending a comment back to ISOC saying that in the case of a mid-term vacancy of an IETF-appointed board seat, the IAB is happy to align seating the replacement to coincide with ISOC’s Annual General Meeting, but that the process for the appointment itself should be left to the IAB’s discretion. The IAB agreed with this sentiment. Ted will draft proposed text and send it out to the IAB for an e-vote.


### 6. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


