
Minutes of the 2016-07-17 IAB Business Meeting 
Berlin, Germany
---------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Olaf Kolkman
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### 1. Planning for the next ISE search


The IAB discussed the search for the next Independent Submissions Editor. The current ISE contract ends in February 2017; Nevil Brownlee has indicated that he is willing to extend his contract by one year if needed.


Martin Thomson observed that the current draft of the ISE succession plan does not detail how much time is needed for the role. Robert Sparks will follow up to find out the answer to that question.


The IAB noted that the current ongoing discussions about the role of the Independent Stream as a whole may result in updates to RFC 4846. If updates to RFC 4846 are needed, it would be preferable to complete those updates before starting the search for the next ISE. Robert Sparks will go back to RSOC and find out the milestone deadlines for appointing a new ISE.


### 2. RFC Format Drafts


Andrew Sullivan will send out an e-vote to approve the RFC Format Drafts.


### 3. Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level


The IAB approved their response to the ICANN call for public comments on Reference Label Generation Rulesets (LGRs) for the Second Level. Andrew Sullivan will submit the response on behalf of the IAB.


### 4. IAB Technical Plenaries


Andrew Sullivan noted that there will not be an IAB technical plenary talk at IETF 96 because the desired speaker had visa-related travel issues. He observed that this is a recurring problem, and asked how the IAB can improve here.


Lee Howard suggested that “Technical Plenary Topics” be added as a standing item to the IAB teleconference agenda, to run through the list of potential topics and the wiki and find out if there is any progress on scheduling tech chats. Cindy Morgan will add this item to future teleconference agendas.


Brian Trammell, Lee Howard, and Lars Eggert agreed to come up with a description and list of possible members for an IAB Program to arrange technical plenary talks.


Andrew Sullivan will send out a note to the community highlighting the IAB-sponsored session on upcoming ZSK and KSK changes to the root zone.


### 5. ITAC Update


The IAB Chair is currently the IAB’s point of contact to the Internet Technical Advisory Committee to the OECD. The IAB agreed that, in accordance with [the ITAC charter](https://www.internetsociety.org/sites/default/files/itac-charter1.pdf), the IAB will designate a new contact point to facilitate coordination with the ITAC.


### 6. ICANN RZERC Appointment


The IAB selected a candidate for the ICANN RZERC in an executive session. Russ Housley will notify all of the candidates, and Cindy Morgan will send out an announcement.


