
Minutes of the 2016-12-07 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Dave Thaler
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reported that the IAB calendar is moving; she will send out the details for the new calendar soon.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 13 November 2016, 17 November 2016, and 30 November 2016 business meetings were approved.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Allison Mankin reported that she is waiting to hear back from Dave Clark about the IETF 98 Plenary.


### 3. Public Comment on Registration Data Directory Services Consistent Labeling and Display Policy


The IAB approved the text of their comments on “Revised Proposed Implementation of GNSO Thick Whois Consensus Policy Requiring Consistent Labeling and Display of RDDS (Whois) Output for All gTLDs.” Andrew Sullivan will submit the comments on behalf of the IAB.


### 4. Program reviews and tech chats


Cindy Morgan will start a thread on the IAB list about how the IAB handles Program reviews.


### 5. draft-iab-carisreport


Kathleen Moriarty reported that draft-iab-carisreport had expired, and asked the IAB what next steps were needed. The community review period ended in July 2016.


Cindy Morgan will resurrect the document, and add it to the agenda for the next IAB meeting for the IAB to discuss whether it is ready for approval.


### 6. .homenet and new IANA process for a special use domain name


Suzanne Woolf noted that draft-ietf-homenet-dot-00 updates the special use domain name registry (RFC 6761) to include the string “homenet” and asks IANA for an update in the root zone to support an unsigned delegation of .homenet to IANA name servers and AS112. There is currently no precedent for entries in the root zone to support special use domain names, and no process on how to handle it since the root zone is not an IETF registry.


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed that Suzanne Woolf would draft an email to the IESG explaining their concerns.


### 7. Executive Session: IAOC Appointment


The IAB appointed Kaveh Ranjbar to the IAOC for a two-year term beginning in March 2017.


### 8. Executive Session: ISE Appointment


The IAB reappointed Nevil Brownlee as the Independent Series Editor for a one-year term beginning in February 2017.


### 9. Executive Session: Potential request for review under RFC 4846


The IAB has received a potential request for review under RFC 4846, but the request requires clarification in order to be published. Ted Hardie will follow up with the requester to clarify the request.


