
Minutes of the 2016-08-17 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy reminded IAB members planning to attend the IETF-IEEE 802 coordination meeting to make their hotel reservations and RSVP on the wiki by the end of next week.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 August 2016 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
16 August 2016

Topics:

I. A Policy Framework for an Open and Trusted Internet
II. Internet Infrastructure Security in Africa
III. EuroDig
IV. IANA
V. OECD Ministerial on the Digital Economy
VI. ICANN Plan for DNSSEC Root Key Rollover
VII. Policy Fellows Program at the IETF 96 Meeting in Berlin
VIII. IGF Retreat

I. A Policy Framework for an Open and Trusted Internet
The Internet Society introduced a “beta version” policy framework for an
open and trusted Internet at the OECD Ministerial Meeting: The Digital
Economy, Innovation, Growth and Social Prosperity [1]. Comments are
welcome.

[1] <http://www.internetsociety.org/doc/policy-framework-open-and- 
trusted-internet>

II. Internet Infrastructure Security in Africa
The Internet Society held a panel discussion at the African Internet
Summit on "Internet infrastructure security in Africa" to discuss
specific security challenges in the region. This is the initial stage of
a joint project between the Internet Society and the African Union
Commission to develop best practice guidelines for Internet
infrastructure security for the region.

III. EuroDig
The European Dialogue for Internet Governance (EuroDig) took place on
June 9-10 in Brussels. The focus of this year’s EuroDig was on Internet
fragmentation — especially how regulation (e.g. the right to be
forgotten) can lead to a fragmented Internet. Other issues discussed
included: security, network neutrality and zero rating services.

IV. IANA
Following the announcement of the NTIA that the final IANA proposal
meets its criteria, the Internet Society CEO and President, Kathy Brown,
released the following blog: <https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/ 
public-policy/2016/06/important-next-step-iana-stewardship-transition- 
ntia-says-proposal-meets>

V. OECD Ministerial on the Digital Economy
The Internet Society coordinates the Internet Technical Advisory
Committee to the OECD (ITAC) and engaged actively in the 2016 OECD
Ministerial on the Digital Economy, held in Cancun, Mexico. ITAC
organized sessions on IPv6, collaborative security and open standards
for IoT. Jari Arkko, IETF Chair, opened the ITAC Forum and participated
in a Ministerial panel (his remarks on collaboration among stakeholders
are reflected on the IETF blog). The Ministerial concluded with a
Declaration identifying priorities in the fields of trust, openness,
skills and connectivity.

VI. ICANN Plan for DNSSEC Root Key Rollover
ICANN has formally announced a plan for rolling the Key Signing Key
(KSK) at the root of DNS. ICANN has created a website [1] with
information about the upcoming change and resources available to help
developers of DNS software. ICANN's Matt Larson presented about this at
an IAB sponsored IETF 96 lunch session. His slides are available [2]
from a similar session at the recent ICANN 56 DNSSEC Workshop. The
Internet Society will be working to support a smooth transition
primarily through the DNSSEC section of the Deploy360 Programme[3] and
other complementary efforts.

[1] <https://www.icann.org/kskroll>
[2] <http://schd.ws/hosted_files/icann562016/60/Matt%20Larson 
%20ICANN56%20KSK%20roll%20briefing.pdf>
[3] <https://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/dnssec/>

VII. Policy Fellows Program at the IETF 96 Meeting in Berlin
The policy fellows program once again took place during the IETF 96
meeting in Berlin. The Internet Society brought 11 senior policy experts
from 8 different countries to the meeting. The fellows were exposed to a
variety of technical sessions and presentations ranging from routing, to
DNS and IANA, IoT security, encryption, IP addressing and IPv6,
interconnection and IXPs, and human rights considerations. In addition,
the policy fellows had the opportunity to attend working group sessions
and BoFs. A lunch discussion on Trust was also organized with experts,
including Kathy Brown, Kathleen Moriarty, Hans Peter Dittler and Richard
Barnes. Finally, the IETF, ISOC and IAB leadership also met and
interacted with the fellows.

VIII. IGF Retreat
ISOC along with other members of the Internet technical community
participated in a retreat organized by the UN to discuss a ten-year
strategy for the IGF. Discussions led to a compilation of ideas mostly
in line with the recommendations of the CSTD Working Group on IGF
Improvements, i.e. maintaining the multistakeholder approach of the IGF,
developing its policy outputs while avoiding becoming a negotiating
body, etc. The proceedings of the IGF retreat are available for comment:
<http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/2016-06-23-15-15-52/igf-retreat- 
proceedings>
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I. Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

IANA Naming Function Agreement (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/
iana-naming-function-agreement-2016-08-10-en)
End: Sep 9th, 2016

II. Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

IANA stewardship transition
---------------------------

ICANN has sent an implementation planning status to NTIA (https://
www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/iana-stewardship-implementation-
planning-status-12aug16-en.pdf). NTIA has answered the report by a
letter to the ICANN CEO (https://www.ntia.doc.gov/other-publication/
2016/letter-icann-ceo-marby-regarding-iana-stewardship-transition-
status-update). NTIA has also published a blog and a FAQ about the
current situation of the transition (https://www.ntia.doc.gov/blog/2016/
update-iana-transition, https://www.ntia.doc.gov/other-publication/2016/
q-and-iana-stewardship-transition-0). Basically, NTIA intends to allow
the IANA functions contract to expire as of October 1.

III. (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN board retreat 15-17. September 2016
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Liaison Report – 17 July 2016

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for both the June and July
2016 monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of
processing goal times. These times include the steps that the IANA
Department has control over and not time it is waiting on requesters,
document authors or other experts.

Other News:

- Blog post regarding IANA Stewardship Transition:
https://www.icann.org/news/blog/implementation-planning-execution-and-
ntia-s-response

- Working on plan for the drafting the 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor

- Format update
With the approval of the format drafts, the RFP will be going out in
August to start the bidding process for the necessary tools to implement
the new format model. The RFP for the CSS is already posted, and will be
open until 9 September 2016. The current github repositories for the
drafts will be copied over to https://github.com/IETF-Formatters for
tracking of any issues that need to be accounted for in the -bis documents.

- Digital Signatures for RFCs
Russ Housley met with the RSOC during IETF 96 to discuss the digital
signature plans for RFCs, as described in
draft-housley-rfc-and-id-signatures. Heather Flanagan, RFC Series
Editor, will be working on an operations manual that includes
information on signing procedures, key revocation, key assignment, etc,
for the RPC.

- Digital Preservation
The Royal Library of Sweden has signed off on the updates to the IETF
RSS feed that they need to start ingesting documents into their
repository. We expect this to go live in August 2016.

- IETF 96
The RFC Series Advisory Group (RSAG), the document stream chairs, and
the RSOC held lunch meetings in Berlin to discuss the latest activities
touching the RFC Series, including the latest news for the format
project, digital signatures for RFCs, discussions around the document
stream structure and the Independent Submissions stream, and more. The
RSE held office hours, with the most common topic from the community
being their excitement over including SVG in future documents.

RPC Update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
The RPC has met the new SLA for Q1 and Q2 of 2016 at Tier 2. [1]

- IETF 96
The RPC held office hours during IETF and fielded a variety of questions
ranging from “what is the RFC Editor?” to “do you have a recommendation
to convert TXT to XML?”.

[1] "Tier 2: When there is a moderate burst in the amount of input, then
the SLA shifts to 50% of documents published within the period have an
RFC Editor-controlled time that adds up to 12 weeks or fewer within the
given quarter or the subsequent quarter. Where a ‘moderate’ burst is
defined as 1950 – 3072 (inclusive) Pages gone to EDIT (PGTE)."
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Heather Flanagan reported that she has an additional lead on the digital preservation project from the Los Alamos National Laboratory.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB reviewed the current queue of potential technical plenary topics. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Ari Keranen to schedule a tech chat on IETF work in IoT.


### 4. Plenary Planning Program


The IAB approved the creation of a Plenary Planning Program, with Lee Howard as the Program Lead. Cindy Morgan will coordinate with Lee to set up the web page and mailing list for the new Program.


### 5. IPv6 Liaison statement


The IAB discussed a potential liaison statement on the IPv6 transition. Ted Hardie noted that there are SDOs (and non-SDOs) with whom the IAB does not currently have a liaison relationship that might find this statement useful, so the statement should be posted on the IAB website in addition to being sent to the organizations.


The IAB will continue to discuss the text of the statement over email. Dave Thaler and Erik Nordmark agreed to help Lee Howard with revisions to the current text.


### 6. draft-nrooney-marnew-report


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-nrooney-marnew-report on the IAB stream. Brian Trammell will follow up with the authors to get the next version posted as a draft-iab- document.


### 7. IAB Wikis


Cindy Morgan reported that a public IAB wiki has been set up on iab.org. Robert Sparks asked the IAB to continue tagging pages in the private wiki that should be moved to the public wiki. Once pages are tagged, Robert and Cindy will coordinate moving those over to the new wiki.


Once the public wiki has some content, Cindy Morgan will add a link to it from the IAB home page.


### 8. Do We Need An Open Source Program?


Robert Sparks reported that the IESG had a discussion about IETF engagement with the Open Source community, and wondered if that was work for an IAB Program. Ted Hardie observed that this could fall under the Liaison Oversight Program, and that these sorts of relationships work best when they are driven by people who participate in both organizations. Ralph Droms agreed, adding that the formal liaison relationships are generally there to augment the work that is already being done informally.


The IAB agreed that more informal discussion was needed before progressing this further.


### 9. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Appointment


The IAB selected Allison Mankin as the next IRTF Chair. Lars Eggert and Cindy Morgan will follow up with the candidates and send an announcement to the community.


### 10. Reddit AMA


The IAB discussed the possibility of doing a Reddit AMA. The discussion will continue via email.


