
Minutes of the 2016-01-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Marc Blanchet
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Ralph Droms
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on draft-lewis-domain-names was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 January 2016 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
13 Jan 2016

Topics:

  I. WSIS Review Concludes
 II. OECD Update
III. Call for IGF MAG Nominations
 IV. ICANN Accountability

I. WSIS Review Concludes
The WSIS review process has concluded. Overall, the agreed outcome 
document represents a positive vision by re-committing to the Tunis 
Agenda and the principle of a multistakeholder model for Internet 
governance. Recognizing the role that the Internet Governance Forum 
(IGF) plays, the WSIS+10 outcome document renews the IGF's mandate for 
ten years. It also asserts that Human Rights online must be protected as 
they are offline. The concerns as we move forward are the renewal of the 
Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation, although it will be hosted in the 
CSTD, which is the best possible outcome compared to work being done in 
other fora. Security has been another of the main issues and while a 
collaborative approach is recognised in the language guiding the way 
forward, from the perspective of the Internet Society there remain 
concerns in regards to the document's call for a leading roll for 
governments in this domain - explicitly linked to matters of national 
security.

Constance Bommelaer published a piece about the success of the WSIS+10 
Review and the challenges that lie ahead of us. She called upon the 
Internet community to remain alert and mobilized to address those 
challenges: <https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2015/12/ wrapping-successful-wsis10-review/>

Kathy Brown's speech to the UN General Assembly is also available here: 
<https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2015/12/internet- society-ceo-speech-un-general-assembly-wsis10-review>

II. OECD Update
The Committee on Digital Economy Policy (CDEP) met during the first week 
of December to continue the planning for the 2016 Ministerial on the 
Digital Economy, to be held in Cancun, Mexico. The meeting was focused 
on planning the various sessions during the ministerial, including the 
stakeholder policy forums in which ITAC will organise three events. ITAC 
has been collaborating closely with the other stakeholder groups, BIAC, 
CSISAC and TUAC, and are planning a joint lunch session addressing the 
future of the Internet Economy, as well as a joint declaration linking 
to the ministerial declaration. Work on the ministerial declaration is 
still in progress, but the overall view from the committee, including 
ITAC is that the ministerial declaration has to be improved to provide 
an ambitious and forward looking approach for the OECD. The next steps 
will be further comments on the planned sessions and the declaration to 
be submitted by January 15, and a final preparatory CDEP meeting in 
March 2016.

III. Call for IGF MAG Nominations
The U.N. have launched a call for the annual renewal of the Internet 
Governance Forum Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG). The MAG’s role 
is to advise the U.N. Secretary General on the programme and schedule of 
the Internet Governance Forum meetings. It is comprised of 55 Members 
from governments, the private sector, civil society, and representatives 
from the academic and technical communities. The Internet Society is 
coordinating the process leading to recommendations of participants from 
the Internet Technical Collaboration Group by 1 February 2016. More 
information on how to apply is available here: <http:// www.internetcollaboration.org/nominations/>

IV. ICANN Accountability
The CCWG-Accountability is currently meeting on a weekly basis in an 
attempt to analyze and synthesize the comments received during the 
public comment period. It still aims to submit a proposal to the NTIA at 
the end of January.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


Ted Hardie asked if IAB input into the ITAC collaboration message would be helpful. Mat Ford will pass the question on to Constance Bommelaer and report back.


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


Jari Arkko reported on recent IESG activities:


* Updated the IESG Guidance on Face-to-Face and Virtual Interim Meetings <<http://www.ietf.org/iesg/statement/interim-meetings.html>>
* Started a discussion with the community on a possible new Note Well.
* Sent out a call for nominations for the IESG appointment to the IAOC.
* Discussed whether the IETF can fix bugs in existing standards (e.g., SIP bugs in IPv6).


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
- Prepared IRTF Chair description for next chair selection 
  (https://github.com/larseggert/irtf-chair-description).

- ICNRG Interim meeting Paris, France on January 14-15, 2016

- ICCRG chair change: David Ros -> Jana Iyengar
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Label Generation Ruleset for the Root Zone Version 1 (LGR-1) 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/lgr-1-2015-12-04-en) 
End: Jan 27th, 2015

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

CCWG and transition
-------------------

The accountability activities have continued after the holiday break. 
The CCWG is in full swing again and the board is engaged in the 
discussions. 

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

Board retreat, Singapore, Feb 1-3, 2016
ICANN#55 Marrakech March 5-10, 2016
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Liaison Report – 13 January 2016

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for the December 2015 monthly 
statistic exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal times.  
These times include the steps that the IANA Department has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.

Other News:

- Customer Survey Results announced:
http://www.iana.org/reports/2015/customer-survey-20151115.pdf
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


The IAB congratulated IANA on the results of their customer survey.


#### 2.6. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE Update
* Format project
The format drafts are currently in IAB review, and useful comments have 
been received on several of the drafts that will in turn require those 
drafts be updated before the community comment period starts. The RSOC 
will be discussing the question as to whether the RFC Editor or the RFC 
Series Editor should own certain lists of information as described in 
draft-iab-xml2rfcv3 and draft-iab-html-rfc, which will further feed into 
the updates required before these drafts go to community comment.

* RFC Editor Automated Stats and Metrics project
The Statement of Work for the Stats and Metrics project was posted on 29 
December 2015. Inquiries were due by 6 January 2016 and bids are 
required by 18 January 2016. No inquiries have been received.

* Digital Preservation 
The first formal archive relationship with a digital archive will be 
with the Royal Library of Sweden. They will be ingesting documents via 
an RSS feed that was developed, as per their guidelines, at the 
codesprint during IETF 94. Further details are required in the feed—for 
example, the RSS feed is set to be updated with the publisher 
identification string as provided by the Royal Library of Sweden. When 
that code is complete, the Royal Library should be able to start 
ingesting RFCs immediately. There will be an announcement when this 
process goes into production (expected in February/March 2016). 
Additional partners will be sought after we have completed this task. 


RPC Update
* The SLA was not met for December 2015. See the stats and reports here:

> [Reports](https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/)


From the reports page:
"December 2015: Throughout the year, about 40% of the documents 
published had an RET of 6 weeks or less. Publications have been pretty 
steady throughout the year, with an average of 25 RFCs being announced 
per month. However, the submission and “moved to EDIT” rates have been 
bursty and have been higher than usual. For 2015, the submission count 
(352 documents) was the highest it’s been since 2011 (364 documents, 
which is the record for the RFC series). This has made it difficult to 
keep up with the expected processing times. "
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Heather Flanagan added that starting in 2016, the SLA is based on the number of pages processed, rather than the number of documents.


### 3. RFC Format Drafts


Heather Flanagan noted that the RFC format drafts have received a lot of feedback from the IAB, and the authors will need time to go through those comments and update the documents. She asked that the format drafts be put back on the IAB agenda for 27 January 2016 to evaluate if they are ready to go out for community review.


Ted Hardie asked if the format documents should go out for community review as a single flight, or if they can be sent separately as they become ready. The IAB concluded that because of the dependencies between the documents, it would be better if they go out as a single flight.


Dave Thaler observed that the drafts differ in how they address I-D formats, and noted that having the RFC format be owned by one organization and the I-D format owned by another may not be optimal. Jari Arkko will invite Dave, Joe Hildebrand, and Robert Sparks to the next IESG informal telechat to discuss the treatment of I-D’s in the current drafts with the IESG. The discussion of I-D format ownership can be dealt with separately.


### 4. Privacy and Security Program Review


Ted Hardie updated the IAB on the current activities of the Privacy and Security Program. The group met at all 3 IETF meetings in 2015, but did not hold any interim meetings.


The Program has published two RFCs:


* RFC 7624: Confidentiality in the Face of Pervasive Surveillance: A Threat Model and Problem Statement
* RFC 7696: Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms


Additionally, the Program is working on four other documents:


* draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-mitigations-03
* draft-iab-web-pki-problems-00
* draft-hardie-privsec-metadata-insertion-00
* draft-huitema-privsec-harmfulname-01


The Program has provided input to the IAB for statements on the export of security technology, on the U.S. government’s proposed rulemaking on that export, and on the https only standard for U.S. government web sites.


It has also spent time considering other statements, e.g., on the Indian government’s proposed legislation on cleartext, NIST’s request for responses to the use of ISO/IEC 19790:2012, NIST’s proposed work on Identity brokers, the U.K. government’s proposals for mandatory encryption back doors, and the Kazakh proposal for a national level mandatory root CA. Some of these were moved to other venues (e.g., SAAG), others were OBE, and some were evaluated but did not result in the program asking for a statement.


Ted Hardie noted that the Program has some recommended changes to their scope, such as removing the Internet Scale Resilience section of the work, as it has not been getting the energy to proceed. The Program also suggests removing the work item on an IRTF charter for work exploring block-chain models as sources of truth for community managed resources, as that is really an item for the IRTF to consider.


Dave Thaler asked how the experiment of having different work stream managers within the Program was going. Ted Hardie replied that he thinks it has been helpful, as having one person be strongly associated with a stream has brought some energy, but that it was perhaps not as useful as originally hoped.


The IAB discussed potential changes to the Program membership; one person has resigned because he lacks the time to contribute, and there may be another Program member in the same situation. Ted Hardie noted that it might be helpful to have a person on the Program who could provide the lawful intercept and national security perspectives.


Ted Hardie took an action item to update the Privacy and Security Program scope based on the discussion, and bring it back to the IAB.


### 5. 2016 Retreat


Andrew Sullivan reported that he is waiting to hear back from Kathleen Moriarty and Scott Bradner about space for the IAB retreat in Cambridge, Massachusetts.


### 6. IAB Comments on the ICANN RDAP Profile


The IAB approved the text for the IAB comments on the ICANN RDAP Profile. Marc Blanchet recused. Andrew Sullivan will submit the comments on behalf of the IAB.


### 7. draft-eggert-irtf-chair-description


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-eggert-irtf-chair-description on the IAB stream. Lars Eggert will post an updated version of the document as draft-iab-irtf-chair-description. The document will come back to the agenda on 27 January 2016 to discuss whether it is ready for community review.


### 8. draft-lewis-domain-names


Suzanne Woolf reported that the Names and Identifiers Program has been discussing draft-lewis-domain-names, and would like to adopt the document into the Program.


After discussion, the IAB agrees to invite the document author, Ed Lewis, to join the Program. Suzanne Woolf will extend the invitation and follow up accordingly.


### 9. Executive Session: ICANN TLG Appointment


The IAB discussed the ICANN TLG appointment in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: IANA Transition


The IAB discussed the IANA transition in an executive session.


