
Minutes of the 2016-03-09 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Russ Housley
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan noted that Daylight Savings Time begins in North America this weekend, but does not begin in Europe until two weeks later. As such, the time for the next IAB conference call will be shifted by an hour for people in some time zones.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2 March 2016 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
9 Mar 2016

Topics:

 I. Ethical Data Handling
II. NDSS
III. Future Internet Scenarios Project
IV. IETF Policymakers Programme
 V. GSMA’s Mobile World Congress (MWC) 2016
VI. Materials Posted: ISOC SFO Chapter INET on the Internet of Things

I. Ethical data handling
ISOC arranged and moderated a panel on ethical data handling for this 
year’s Computers, Privacy and Data Protection conference in Brussels in 
January. The panel took place on International Data Protection Day. The 
panellists were: Michelle Dennedy (CPO, Cisco), Gemma Galdon Clavell 
(Eticas Consulting), Gloria Gonzalez Fuster (VUB) and Daniel Pradelles 
(HP Enterprise). The panel discussed the application of ethical 
principles to different phases of the product lifecycle (design, 
development, adoption, operations), and their input will form the basis 
of further ISOC work to develop practical guidance for organisations 
wishing to put ethical data-handling principles into practice. The next 
steps in this process are:

- ISOC participation in a debate on data ethics, organised by the 
Digital Enlightenment Forum (March 1st, Brussels)
- ISOC hosting of a practitioners’ round table workshop to draft a 
conceptual framework and a practical guidance document
- Co-ordination with Danish think-tank DataEthics.eu to establish a 
clearing-house for materials on design principles and good practice. 

II. NDSS
The Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium was held 
22-24 February 2016 in San Diego, CA. This year’s symposium featured a 
keynote by Dr. Matthew Green of Johns Hopkins University discussing 
recent developments “On Subverting Trust” along with peer reviewed 
academic research on numerous important security topics. The symposium 
was preceded by a day of workshops on relevant topics including Usable 
Security (USEC), Understanding and Enhancing Online Privacy (UEOP), and 
TLS 1.3 Ready or Not (TRON). In particular, the objective of the TRON 
workshop was to bring academic researchers and IETF protocol developers 
together to identify potential weaknesses in the TLS 1.3 specification 
prior to the finalization of that critical specification. All papers are 
available online, and the presentations are currently in the process of 
being posted. See <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss- 
symposium-2016/ndss-2016-programme> for further details.

III. Future Internet Scenarios Project
ISOC is undertaking a global project to look at different plausible 
scenarios for the Future of the Internet in 5 - 7 years. For the 
purposes of the project, ISOC are using the term “Internet” in its 
broadest sense, encompassing everything from its structure, governance, 
and underlying technologies, to access, usage, and connected devices. 
The first phase of the project involves garnering input from experts on 
key trends and uncertainties that might impact that future. ISOC would 
very much like input from IAB members and will be following up with 
options for contributing to this phase of the work.   

IV. IETF Policymakers Programme
The IETF 95 meeting in Buenos Aires marks a participation milestone for 
the IETF Policymakers Programme with 24 senior government officials 
expected from mostly Latin America and the Caribbean. Over the course of 
four days, the policy guests will participate in sessions on the core 
technical aspects of the Internet, interact and exchange information 
with IETF experts and gain exposure to the consensus process of the 
IETF. Since the programme’s inception in 2012, the main objective has 
been to build and strengthen support among policymakers worldwide for 
IETF Open Standards and to provide the IETF community with a better 
understanding of the priorities and concerns in developing countries. As 
the program continues to grow and more governments understand the value 
of the IETF and Open Standards, the Internet Society envisions greater 
participation by the technical community from developing countries in 
IETF meetings.

V. GSMA’s Mobile World Congress (MWC) 2016
Internet Society staff participated in the MWC, with President & CEO 
Kathy Brown speaking in the session “Women Leadership Accelerating the 
Digital Age” and Chief Economist Michael Kende participating in a panel 
providing commentary on Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s keynote address.

More information about ISOC's participation in MWC is available:
<https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2016/02/converging- 
barcelona-mwc-2016>
<https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2016/02/watch-live- 
today-mwc-2016-michael-kende-panel-beforeafter-mark-zuckerberg>

VI. Materials Posted: ISOC SFO Chapter INET on the Internet of Things
On 17 February, the Internet Society San Francisco Chapter hosted a one-
day INET event on the Internet of Things, which used the recent ISOC IoT 
paper to frame the agenda. Presentations included a range of topics 
including security, interoperability, privacy, and policy, as well as a 
deployment overview from the building and construction sector. The video 
and presentations were recently posted and are available here: 
<http://www.sfbayisoc.org/iot-conference/>
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IESG Liaison Report


–Begin IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas–



```
Recent new working groups:
   Registration Protocols Extensions (regext)

Current new chartering:

Recent rechartering:
   IPv6 over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4e (6tisch)
   Dispatch (dispatch)

Current rechartering:
   Locator/ID Separation Protocol (lisp)

Recently closed working groups:
   Storage Maintenance (storm)

Personnel changes:
  ROLL chair change:  added Peter van der Stok and removed Michael Richardson
  SOFTWIRES chair: added Ian Farrer
  INTAREA chair: added Wassim Haddad
  NETMOD chair:  added Lou Berger
```

–End IESG Liaison Report, Alia Atlas–


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
* The T2TRG is preparing a two-day interim meeting (Tue 2016-03-15 and 
Wed -16) co-located with the IAB IOTSI workshop, see 
https://github.com/t2trg/2016-03-san-jose/wiki

* The IRTF and the Internet Society, in cooperation with ACM SIGCOMM, 
are planning a yearly academic "Applied Networking Research 
Workshop" (ANRW) co-located with an IETF meeting (usually, the summer 
one). The first one will very likely happen in Berlin on July 16, 
pending final negotiations with the ACM on open access publishing. More 
soon.

* The IRSG and some external folks have been discussing blockchain 
technology and whether there is enough interest and relevance for an RG 
in this space. (That discussion seems to have fizzled out.)

* I won't be in Buenos Aires. Aaron Falk has again volunteered to run 
the working dinner.

* The HRPC RG has launched Net of Rights (https://hrpc.io/net-of-rights) 
and an introduction website (https://hrpc.io)
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


Ted Hardie asked which research group will be reviewed at IETF 95. After discussion, the IAB agreed to review T2TRG, noting that since the group is so new, the discussion will be more about future plans than previous work.


#### 2.4. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-comments#open-public)

Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Operational Profile for gTLD 
Registries and Registrars (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/rdap-
profile-2015-12-03-en) 
End: March 16th, 2016

Draft ICANN FY17 Operating Plan & Budget and Five-Year Operating Plan 
Update (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/op-budget-fy17-five-
year-2016-03-04-en)
End: April 30th, 2016

II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

CCWG and transition
-------------------

The ICANN meeting is ongoing in Marrakech, Morocco. The CCWG Work Stream 
1, the proposal for the accountability, has been finalised and the final 
report has been given to the chartering organisations for approval. The 
chartering organisations are the At-Large Community (ALAC), Address 
Support Organization (ASO), the country code Name Support Organization 
(ccNSO), Governmental Advisory Council (GAC), Generic Names Support 
Organisation (GNSO), and Security and Stability Advisory Council (SSAC). 
By the time this report is written four out of the six have approved the 
proposal. The rest are hoped to follow suit today. The current situation 
can be seen at https://community.icann.org/pages/viewpage.action?
pageId=58723827 The board is expected to approve this on Thursday in its 
public meeting.

This marks a big step in the way to the transition. However, this is not 
end. The next steps involves the implementation including writing the 
ICANN by-laws to reflect the changes. In addition, the US Government 
must still accept the transition later this year.

Namespace discussions
---------------------

The Security and Stability Advisory Council (SSAC) has published SAC078 
"SSAC Advisory on Uses of the Shared Global Domain Name Space" (https://
www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-078-en.pdf). Basically, the 
document intents to increase the awareness of the discussions ongoing 
about namespaces to the ICANN board and community. They also inform that 
they have started a work party on looking at security and stability 
issues with different uses of the name space, such as .onion. There are 
also events at the ICANN discussing these issues.

It would be good if the IETF and the IAB would keep up with this work 
ongoing in ICANN and consider the implications to these discussions in 
the IETF.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN board workshop May 14-16, 2016
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.5. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the February 2016 monthly 
statistic exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal times.  
These times include the steps that the IANA Department has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.

Other News:

- There is a pending nameserver change for the .ARPA top-level domain.  
The IAB will be requested to confirm this change request.

- Staffing update: We have hired an IANA Specialist.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


After discussion, Ted Hardie agreed to shepherd the pending .ARPA change request.


#### 2.6. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE Update
* Format project
The community comment period ends on Friday, 11 March, and has been 
less, as well as differently, contentious than expected. I will have a 
report completed over the weekend with the status of each comment for 
each draft, and will send that on to the IAB when all comments have been 
addressed one way or the other. 

A new SoW is in development for the CSS that will be a big visual part 
of the project. This CSS will impact the look and feel of both the HTML 
and PDF formats. The SoW is currently in review by the Tools Team and 
will hopefully go out for its own community comments in 2-3 weeks.

The RSE is working with Greg Wood at the Internet Society on an RFC 
Format infographic to provide more information about the project and 
it's expected outcomes. The graphic, in poster form, will be displayed 
at the RFC Editor desk during IETF 95. Since we are not in a position to 
hold a useful and substantive BoF or tutorial, this seemed like a good 
way to keep the community informed while respecting the tight schedule 
that forms an IETF meeting. This infographic will also be found on the 
RFC Editor website; we do not intend to print handouts.

* RFC Editor Automated Stats and Metrics

John Levine of Standcore, LLC, has begun work on the Stats and Metrics 
code. This work is intended to follow a model similar to the work done 
for the Datatracker, including the use of Django. The timeframe for the 
projects is:

Feb 15-28: get snapshot of existing code and work with staff to 
understand the existing process, and the new requirements

March: develop beta version

April: iterate with RSE and staff, perhaps in person discussions in 
Buenos Aires

End of April: deliver finished project

* IETF 95 planning

The RFC Editor will have its usual desk, with the RSE and ISE offering 
office hours during the week. 

RPC Update

* SLA report - http://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/ 

The RPC is not expected to meet the new SLA for Q1 2016. The group is in 
the final stages of catch-up from 2015, and is also in the process of 
handling an expedited document request that is impacting the queue (more 
below).

* Expedited Document request

A request to expedite the publication of the following drafts was 
received at the end of February.

* draft-ietf-isis-te-metric-extensions-11
* draft-ietf-rtgwg-mrt-frr-architecture-10
* draft-ietf-rtgwg-mrt-frr-algorithm-09
* draft-ietf-isis-pcr-05

Because of the timing and nature of the request, whereas the IEEE needed 
the RFC numbers by the end of the month for the release of 802.1Qca on 
March 15, the RFC Editor made an exception to our process and assigned 
RFC numbers to these drafts before they entered AUTH48. There are over 
200 pages total in these four drafts, and that is causing some delay to 
other documents in the queue.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 95


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 95. Andrew Sullivan asked IAB members to add potential discussion topics to the wiki or send them to the IAB list.


Cindy Morgan noted that the IAB agenda for Monday morning has a joint IAB/IESG breakfast, but the IESG agenda lists an IESG-only meeting. She asked if there were topics to be discussed in a joint session.


Joe Hildebrand noted that he would like 5 minutes to talk about the RFC format changes, but that the discussion does not necessarily have to be on Monday; it could be on Sunday or Friday, as well.


Ted Hardie asked if draft-hardie-iaoc-iab-update should be discussed with the IESG and/or IAOC. Jari Arkko replied that the IESG and IAB should discuss it together.


The IAB agreed that if the Monday morning agenda was still empty by next week, the joint meeting would be canceled.


Cindy Morgan noted that the IAB’s Tuesday morning agenda is also currently empty; last week, the IAB agreed to wait until 23 March 2016, and if the agenda is still empty at that point, that meeting slot will be used for a Privacy and Security Program meeting instead.


### 4. BOF and PRG Coverage at IETF 95


Cindy Morgan asked IAB members to sign up for BOF and proposed RG coverage in the wiki. She noted that Brian Haberman has also requested an IAB shepherd for the LPWAN BOF. Erik Nordmark replied that he might be able to do this, and that he has sent email to Brian asking for more information.


### 5. IAB Meeting Time


The IAB discussed changing the time of IAB teleconferences starting after IETF 95. The IAB agreed that no one should have to be on the phone between 0100 and 0300 in their time zone. Cindy Morgan will send out a Doodle poll with meeting time options.


### 6. Emergency Services High-Level Document


Mary Barnes reported that the Emergency Services Program met, but they still do not have a volunteer to take on the high-level emergency services document. The Program took an action to ask interested people to go to the ECRIT meeting at IETF 95.


The Program agreed that shutting down makes sense. Emergency Services work will be followed in other venues.


### 7. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB appointment to the RSOC was discussed in an executive session.


### 8. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees was discussed in an executive session. Russ Housley, who has recused himself from discussions on this topic, was not on the teleconference.


