
Minutes of the 2016-01-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to sign their Programs up for review at a future IAB meeting.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 December 2015 business meeting were approved pending changes to be made by Cindy Morgan. The minutes of the 16 December 2015 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. 2016 Retreat


The IAB agreed to hold a two-day retreat either 16-17 May 2016 or 17-18 May 2016 (depending on space availability) in the greater Boston area. Andrew Sullivan will follow up with Scott Bradner and Kathleen Moriarty to see if Harvard or EMC have space the IAB can use for the retreat. Ralph Droms will also check to see if there is space available near the Cisco campus in Cambridge.


### 3. IAB Comment on RDAP


Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote on the IAB Comments on the ICANN RDAP Profile.


### 4. Reported IAB Stream Errata


The IAB agreed to mark errata ID 4523 (on RFC 2686) and errata ID 4563 (on RFC 3552) both as “Verified.” Andrew Sullivan will enter these responses into the RFC Editor Errata system.


### 5. Evaluating Carbon Emissions in Protocol Design: System Design or Protocol Design Question?


Poul-Henning Kamp sent correspondence to the IAB suggesting that it recommend to the IETF inclusion of considerations related to greenhouse gasses (carbon emissions) during protocol design, possibly by making that a required section of the RFC format. In email discussions with Poul-Henning, the IAB raised concerns about the ability to establish appropriate evaluation criteria. Given that many protocols may be used in multiple environments and many energy minimization simply strategies shift the locus of energy usage, there seems to be no Internet-scale measurement which would be common. Instead, energy minimization would need to be considered in specific system designs. In the discussion at the meeting, the IAB concluded that, given the lack of specific deployment information, the energy efficiency discussions for relevant protocol designs largely covered the same ground as an emissions analysis.


### 6. IANA Transition Update


Andrew Sullivan reported that the CCWG on Enhancing ICANN Accountability has increased their meeting frequency in order to finish their work and meet the IANA transition timeline.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group was discussed in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send out a call for feedback on the candidates.


### 8. Executive Session: NomCom Slate


In an executive session, the IAB confirmed the IESG slate presented by the IETF NomCom. Robert Sparks will follow up with the NomCom Chair.


