
Minutes of the 2016-07-21 IAB Business Meeting 
Berlin, Germany
---------------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Olaf Kolkman


### Guest:


* Arjuna Sathiaseelan, Global Access to the Internet for All (GAIA) Research Group Chair


### 1. IRTF Review: Global Access to the Internet for All Research Group (GAIA)


Arjuna Sathiaseelan updated the IAB on the current activities of the Global Access to the Internet for All (GAIA) Research Group.


GAIA was chartered in October 2014, and held their first meeting at IETF 89. They have had six meetings since then, with three of those held in conjunction with IETF meetings. There are currently about 370 subscribers to the mailing list.


GAIA is intended as a collaboration and discussion forum to bring together different parts of the industry. The group has several ongoing collaborations with ISOC on infrastructure measurements and new wireless deployments.


Russ Housley asked if “wireless” referred to mobile phones. Arjuna Sathiaseelan clarified that they mean WiFi and promotion of whitespace areas. Russ asked if the PAWS (Protocol to Access WS database) work was being leveraged; Arjuna replied that they could. Mat Ford (GAIA co-chair) added that they have had a presentation on the spectrum available for cellular deployments, so “wireless” is really referring to both.


The RG has one document currently with the RFC Editor, “Alternative Network Deployments: Taxonomy, characterization, technologies and architectures” (draft-irtf-gaia-alternative-network-deployments-08).


Arjuna Sathiaseelan noted that the future looks bright. The UK government recently announced the Global Challenges Research fund, and the EU’s Horizon 2020 program calls for international partnership-building in several low and middle-income countries.


Dave Thaler asked what the main motivations for various researchers to participate in the RG are. Mat Ford replied that most people come to get more visibility for their own work.


Dave Thaler asked how many of the people on the mailing list are actively participating. Arjuna Sathiaseelan replied that about 50 of the 370 people on the list are actively contributing. One of the challenges GAIA has is to motivate more draft contributions. There is a lot of interest in how to actually deploy the network, so it is important to document the process of how to set up the infrastructure and disseminate how the networks are deployed.


Suzanne Woolf asked if any of the GAIA work has fed into IETF Working Groups yet. Arjuna Sathiaseelan replied that it has not yet, but it could in the future.


### 2. RFC Format Drafts


The e-vote on the RFC Format Drafts remains open.


