
Minutes of the 2016-02-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Items on draft-iab-rfc5741bis and draft-hardie-iaoc-iab-update were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 27 January 2016 business meeting were approved pending edits to be made by Russ Housley.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


Joe Hildebrand and Russ Housley took an action to draft an update to RFC 3677, noting that the IAB now appoints 4 members of the ISOC Board of Trustees.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 95


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to start thinking about agenda items for IETF 95.


Ted Hardie noted that the Privacy and Security Program will meet at IETF 95. Brian Trammell added that the IP Stack Evolution Program will meet as well.


The IAB discussed which IRTF Research Group to review at IETF 95. Lars Eggert will reach out to the DTNRG chairs and see if they will be available.


### 3. draft-iab-rfc5741bis


The IAB discussed draft-iab-rfc5741bis. Robert Sparks noted that the two outstanding questions had been answered, and a new revision has been made available.


Dave Thaler noted that the intro text of Appendix C still needs to be wordsmithed, but that can be handled as an RFC Editor note or in AUTH48.


Russ Housley noted that the current draft no longer refers to the RFC info pages, and asked why that change was made. Robert Sparks will check on that and report back.


Joe Hildebrand asked if Julian Reschke has reviewed the document, as he has looked at the boilerplates recently and might be aware of additional issues. Robert Sparks will ask him to review the draft by 10 February 2016.


This document will be put back on the agenda of the 10 February 2016 IAB meeting to discuss approving it.


### 4. Emergency Services Program Review


Mary Barnes updated the IAB on the current state of the Emergency Services Program. Its work items include:


* Identify organizations active in the emergency services area worldwide.
* Develop formal and informal relationships with organizations identified above, to ensure a better information flow regarding relevant activities.
* Develop a high-level document that can be used to explain the IETF emergency services architecture to non-technical experts.
* Identify gaps and potential new work within the Emergency Services architecture. The technical work itself will be done within the IETF.


Mary Barnes noted that the Program membership is large when compared to other IAB Programs. In one sense, the Program also acts as a special interest group with a slightly different model from other IAB Programs, in that its work items focus on liaison and outreach activities, and thus, there is no clear definition of when the Program would complete its deliverables.


The Emergency Services Program went dormant in 2014; while there were ongoing activities, there was no clear need for IAB involvement. Prior to dormancy, the Program sent a letter to the European Commission on Global Interoperability in Emergency Services, held face-to-face meetings and conference calls to share information about ongoing activities, and worked on a high-level document that could be used to explain the IETF emergency services architecture to non-technical experts. The work on the high-level document is not yet complete.


Since 2014, Andrew Hutton and Natasha Rooney have joined the Program. The Program met at IETF 94 in Yokohama to discuss bringing the Program out of dormancy, but there were too few individuals there to make a determination. A follow-up meeting has been proposed but not yet scheduled.


Mary Barnes noted that there remains a lot of ongoing emergency services-related activities in NENA, EENA, and ETSI, as the transition to all IP is still in progress.


Mary Barnes proposed the following:


1. Complete the high-level document that can be used to explain the IETF emergency services architecture to non-technical experts.
2. Keep the Program dormant with an IAB lead and periodic updates on anything that may require IAB attention.
3. Have individuals from the IETF to encourage the use of IETF protocols in the solutions being developed in other SDOs and forums.
4. Keep the program mailing list up and running
5. Advertise the public mailing list as a venue for new possible relevant issues.


Andrew Sullivan asked if the Program should remain open, considering the current lack of energy. Erik Nordmark asked if the high-level document needs to be on the IAB stream, or if it could move elsewhere. Mary Barnes replied that the document is informational, and does not include any specific IAB recommendations. Martin Thomson suggested that the document might fit into the ECRIT Working Group.


After discussion, Brian Trammell agreed to approach the ART Area Directors and ask if there is interest in dispatching the high-level document explaining the IETF emergency services architecture to non-technical experts into the ECRIT Working Group. Pending the outcome of that discussion, the IAB may consider closing the Emergency Services Program, while leaving the mailing lists open for future coordination on emergency services-related topics.


### 5. Update from IETF/IEEE 802 Coordination Call


The most recent meeting of the IETF/IEEE 802 Coordination team was held on Monday, 1 February 2016. Ralph Droms noted that one of the hot items is enabling use of local addresses for virtualization and IoT. IEEE 802.1 has a PAR in place and is beginning to look at candidate protocols. Russ Housley expressed concern about dynamic MAC address assignment at the IP level; Ralph, Russ, and Erik Nordmark will engage Pat Thaler and Glenn Parsons about this further via email.


The coordination team has an open Doodle poll to choose the date for their next face-to-face meeting.


The draft minutes from the meeting are available from <<https://www.iab.org/activities/joint-activities/iab-ieee-coordination/>>.


### 6. IAB Stream Errata Guidelines


The IAB agreed upon the guidelines for handling IAB stream errata that were proposed by Dave Thaler. The guidelines are documented in the internal IAB wiki.


### 7. ETSI Industry Specification Group on Next Generation Protocols


Brian Trammell asked the IP Stack Evolution Program if there was need for an informal liaison with the ETSI Industry Specification Group on Next Generation Protocols; currently, the answer is no, unless there is a conflict about the ethertypes. Brian added that he is meeting next week with Diego Lopez, who is participating in that activity, and will ask him to keep the IAB updated if anything of relevance to the IAB arises.


Ted Hardie suggested that the influence of ETSI work on 5G might be a topic for discussion in Buenos Aires. Ralph Droms noted that information-centric networking is also making a push for inclusion in 5G.


Brian Trammell asked that this topic be added to the agenda for the next IAB meeting.


### 8. draft-hardie-iaoc-iab-update


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to review draft-hardie-iaoc-iab-update, noting that there is already discussion happening on the IETF list. The document aims to update the ex officio member from the IAB who serves on the IAOC in order to better account for that change and better match the skills set out in RFC 4333.


### 9. IAB Chair Selection at IETF 95


Cindy Morgan will follow up offline about starting the IAB Chair selection process for 2016-2017.


### 10. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


