
Minutes of the 2016-01-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The IAB welcomed Lee Howard and Martin Thomson, who will be seated on the IAB at IETF 95.


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to respond to the Doodle poll to choose a time for the IETF 95 BOF coordination call.


Cindy Morgan noted that the next teleconference between the IAB/IESG and IEEE 802 will be on Monday, 1 February 2016.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 13 January 2016 business meeting were approved.


### 2. RFC Format Drafts


The IAB discussed whether the RFC format drafts are ready to be sent out for community review, noting that the IETF Chair has already sent out a message saying that the review will begin soon. Dave Thaler and Ted Hardie said that they have not yet had a chance to review the most recent versions of some of the drafts, which were posted less than 24 hours ago. Additionally, Ted noted that one of the drafts has an unresolved issue from that he raised had previously raised. As such, the IAB agreed that the drafts are not yet ready to begin the formal community review.


Robert Sparks will send a reply to the IETF Chair’s message about the RFC format drafts to make the following points:


* The call for comments will be issued within the next few weeks.
* While new revisions of some of the drafts will appear before the call is issued, the scope of the expected changes is not large.
* The IAB welcomes early review comments on any of these documents.


### 3. draft-iab-rfc5741bis-01


The community review period on draft-iab-rfc5741bis-01 ended on 13 January 2016.


Dave Thaler asked if Appendix C would be removed from the document before publication; Robert Sparks replied that he sees value in leaving it in the document as a record of what where it started. It was agreed that the intro text of the Appendix would be wordsmithed accordingly.


Robert Sparks noted that there were two comments received during the community review. The first is about a comment from Graham Klyne about expert reviewers. Robert will respond to Graham and ask him to redirect that conversation to the IESG. The second was a question from Paul Hoffman about how the community will be informed of changes to the boilerplate webpage. Joe Hildebrand will respond to Paul, and suggest clarification text for the document authors.


### 4. RSOC Membership


Alexey Melnikov will be stepping down from the RSOC in April 2016 when he is seated on the IESG. Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the draft timeline and messaging for a call for nominations to replace Alexey on the RSOC. If there are no objections by the end of the day, Cindy will send out the call for nominations on 28 January 2016.


### 5. draft-iab-irtf-chair-description


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-irtf-chair-description out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the call for comment message.


### 6. IRTF Chair Appointment


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the timeline and messaging for the 2017 IRTF Chair appointment.


### 7. IPROC Program Review


Russ Housley updated the IAB on the current state of the IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC). The IPROC is both an IAB program and an IAOC subcommittee; it advises the IAB (responsible for IANA oversight with respect to the protocol parameter registries) and the IAOC (responsible for the fiscal and administrative support for the IANA protocol parameter registries). The IPROC focuses on the oversight of operations related to processing IETF protocol parameter requests. It also reviews the service level agreement (SLA) between the IETF and ICANN. This year, for the first time, IPROC also reviewed the results of an audit of the ICANN IANA Department.


The IPROC was initially an informal group; however, “IPROC” was  

mentioned by name in the 2013 SLA. A new SLA that did not mention  

IPROC was prepared but not signed due to issues associated with the  

IANA Stewardship Transition, and so the IAB made IPROC an IAB Program  

in 2015.


The IPROC routinely does the following:


1. Provides review and recommendations related to the annual updates to the SLA between the IETF and ICANN;
2. Oversees and reviews deliverables described in the annual SLA;
3. Reviews operational issues related to processing protocol parameter requests, IESG designated experts, and tools development; and
4. Responds to specific developments and information requests.


The IPROC reviews operations related to processing IETF protocol parameter requests at a face-to-face session during the IETF meetings and on a phone call between IETF meetings if needed.


Recent activities include:


* Reviewed operations related to processing IETF protocol parameter requests;
* Prepared yet-to-be-signed SLA between the IETF and ICANN; and
* Reviewed confidential audit report of IANA performance and the public summary of the audit report.


Ted Hardie asked if IANA would notify the IPROC or the IESG if a designated expert was not performing. Russ Housley replied that the IPROC receives monthly reports that show whether things are flowing as expected, and has suggested in the past that IANA ask the IESG for additional designated experts when needed. Jari Arkko added that the IESG is responsible for naming designated experts, but that they are generally not tracking the size of the IANA queue.


Erik Nordmark asked how members of the IPROC were chosen. Russ Housley replied that the current IPROC membership is 3 IAB members (the IETF Chair, the IAB Lead for the IANA Evolution Program, and the IAB Chair), a former IAB member, 2 representatives from IANA, the IAOC Chair, the IAD, and the IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board. Erik observed that if the IAB wanted to make changes to the membership, they would have to run it by the IAOC as well, as the other parent organization for the IPROC.


The IAB decided to put an item on IPROC membership and evolution on the agenda for the 2016 retreat.


### 8. Privacy and Security Program


The IAB approved an updated description for the Privacy and Security Program. Ted Hardie will send the updated text to Cindy Morgan for posting on the website.


### 9. Informal Liaison re: Name Space Definition and Use


Suzanne Woolf reported that the ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee (SSAC) has formed a Work Party to investigate the implications for ICANN of having multiple name resolution protocols and the IETF special use names registry, sharing the domain name space with DNS. Suzanne asked if anyone on the IAB was willing to help with an informal liaison to provide input into this process. Ralph Droms, Ted Hardie, and Russ Housley agreed to help with this.


### 10. 2016 Retreat


Andrew Sullivan reported that EMC has space available for the IAB retreat on 17-18 May 2016. Cindy Morgan will follow up with AMS about getting a hotel room block nearby.


### 11. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion. In an executive session, the IAB re-appointed Warren Kumari to serve on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Russ Housley will follow up with the candidates, and Cindy Morgan will send the announcement.


