
Minutes of the 2016-04-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomsom
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Two new items were added to the agenda: ETSI Panel on IoT Security, and Name Server Change Request for E164.ARPA.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 23 March 2016, 3 April 2016, and 20 April 2016 business meetings were approved. The minutes of the 7 April 2016 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed agenda topics for the IAB retreat. IAB members who added topics to the list were asked to add discussion leaders and the amount of time needed for the topic to the wiki. Brian Trammell, Erik Nordmark, and Cindy Morgan will put together a draft agenda and send it out to the IAB for review.


Andrew Sullivan will follow up with the W3C and see if there are people available on Wednesday afternoon for an informal gathering after the IAB retreat is finished.


### 3. Internet of Things Software Update Workshop (IoTSU)


Dave Thaler reported that he met with Stephen Farrell and Hannes Tschofenig to discuss the Internet of Things Software Update (IoTSU) Workshop and find out if it meets the criteria for an IAB workshop. Dave recommended that the IAB sponsor this workshop, and the IAB agreed. Cindy Morgan will set up a mailing list for the workshop program committee.


### 4. ICANN Bylaws Response


Ted Hardie reported that interested members of the IAB will meet with the IANA Evolution Program following this meeting to discuss the response to the ICANN Bylaws.


### 5. Name Server Change Request for E164.ARPA


The IAB approved the request to remove two name servers from e164.arpa. Ted Hardie will send text for Cindy Morgan to use in the official response to IANA.


### 6. ETSI Panel on IoT Security


Ted Hardie reported that ETSI is trying to put together a panel on IoT Security during ETSI Security Week (13-17 June), and is looking for experts. The panel will be the day after the IOTSU Workshop in Dublin, which means that most of the people who are at that workshop would not be able to make it to Sophia Antipolis in time for the panel.


### 7. Internationalization Program Review


Ted Hardie updated the IAB on the current state of the Internationalization Program. The Program was intended to bring together the complex tradeoffs surrounding Internationalization issues to reduce the number of decisions that are made on an isolated topic basis and, where appropriate, to review prior IAB and IETF work that has may require updating to reflect accumulated experience.


The primary purposes of this Program are to:


1. Monitor the state of internationalization-related items in the industry including the IETF and related organizations such as ICANN, Unicode, and ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2,
2. Provide recommendations (via e.g. email or IAB techchat or document) to the IAB,
3. Discuss/review any IAB documents or liaison statements,
4. Plan any other internationalization efforts desired by the IAB (e.g., workshop or plenary), and
5. Maintain historical knowledge within a committee of the IAB.


Ted Hardie suggested that Program description may need to be updated; no single approach to internationalization comes without a cost or a competing SDO. The IAB is responsible for managing the external relationships and a small number of ongoing reviews, but thus far its main role has been to try to limit bikeshedding and try not to break things further.


The IAB also has to be concerned with the IDNA Parameters registry <[http://www.iana.org/assignments/idna-tables-6.3.0/idna-tables-6.3. 0.xhtml](http://www.iana.org/assignments/idna-tables-6.3.0/idna-tables-6.3.%200.xhtml)> and working around the problems that have arisen there.


Internationalization Program activity over the last two years includes:


* The “Hamza above” discussion that led to the IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode 7.0.0 in January 2015
* Program participation in the IETF Locale-free UniCode Identifiers (LUCID) BOF in March 2015
* Program participation in the IETF Label Generation Rules (LAGER) Working Group (chartered in July 2015)


Ted Hardie noted that the issues presented in the LUCID BOF do not yet have a work plan and have not yet been resolved.


Ted Hardie observed that there have been some recent changes to the landscape of the work. There have been positive interactions with the W3C on internationalization, although the progress has been slow. The ICANN LGR-1 went out for review at the end of 2015, and the beta version of Unicode 9 went to public review in March 2016.


Two people have recently volunteered to serve on the Internationalization Program, but there is still a need for experts in Arabic.


### 7. Executive Session: Internationalization Program


The IAB further discussed the Internationalization Program in an executive session. Ted Hardie took an action to draft a new description for the Program and send it out to the IAB for review.


