
Minutes of the 2016-11-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell (present for item 10 only)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the time of their teleconferences will change to 1200 PST/2000 UTC after IETF 97.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 October 2016 and 26 October 2016 meetings were approved pending minor edits to be made by Cindy Morgan.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries including IETF 97


The IAB discussed the technical plenary for IETF 97. On behalf of the Plenary Planning Program, Lee Howard will extend an invitation to an additional potential speaker on “Attacks Against the Architecture.”


### 3. IAB Schedule at IETF 97


The IAB briefly reviewed their schedule for IETF 97. The Wednesday breakfast meeting slot will be devoted to IAOC candidate interviews.


Lee Howard asked to add an item on the IPv6 statement to the agenda of one of the joint meetings with the IESG.


### 4. Potential IAB workshop on “Low Latency Services over WAN”


The IAB discussed a potential workshop on Low Latency Services over WAN. The IAB agreed to invite Linda Dunbar to the IAB’s Sunday meeting at IETF 97 to discuss this further. Ted Hardie will follow up with Linda and extend the invitation.


### 5. Executive Session: ISO Standards


The IAB discussed ISO standards in an executive session. Ted Hardie took an action item to follow up on the discussion.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN TLG Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB agreed to re-appoint Paul Wouters to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group for another year. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Paul and send the official announcement.


### 7. Executive Session: IAOC Appointment


The IAB discussed their appointment to the IAOC in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will try to schedule interviews with the candidates who will be at IETF 97.


### 8. Executive Session: ISOC BOT Appointment


The IAB approved the timeline for the IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Cindy Morgan will send the call for nominations on Sunday, 13 November 2016.


### 9. Independent Stream Editor Appointment


Cindy Morgan will send out a call for feedback on the current Independent Stream Editor.


### 10. IPv6 Statement


The IAB approved the statement on IPv6. Lee Howard will send the final statement to the IAB, and follow up with Greg Wood about distribution of the statement.


