
Minutes of the 2016-05-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Martin Thomson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to sign up to have their Programs reviewed at a future IAB meeting.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 4 May 2016 and 11 May 2016 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. NTIA Statement


The IAB approved the text for the response to NTIA Docket No. 160331306–6306–01 on The Benefits, Challenges, and Potential Roles for the Government in Fostering the Advancement of the Internet of Things. Andrew Sullivan will send out the response on behalf of the IAB, and Cindy Morgan will post it on the website.


### 3. CARIS Workshop Report


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-moriarty-carisreport as an Informational document on the IAB Stream. The document will be put on the agenda for the next IAB meeting to decide whether it is ready for community review.


### 4. ICANN Customer Standing Committee


The IAB agreed that they would not make an appointment to the ICANN Customer Standing Committee.


### 5. Appointment to the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC)


The IAB approved the text for the call for volunteers for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) pending edits to be made by Cindy Morgan. Cindy will send the message out to IETF-Announce.


### 6. IPROC Program Review


Russ Housley briefly updated the IAB on the current state of the IETF Protocol Registries Oversight Committee (IPROC) <[https://www.iab.org/ activities/programs/iproc/](https://www.iab.org/%20activities/programs/iproc/)>. There have been no changes to the landscape of the work since the previous IPROC review on 27 January 2016.


### 7. Executive Session: IP Stack Evolution Program Membership


The IAB agreed to add Suresh Krishnan to the IP Stack Evolution Program. The IAB also agreed to remove Ken Calvert, Stuart Cheshire, and Xing Li from the Program.


### 8. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


