
Minutes of the 2016-02-24 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alia Atlas (IESG Liaison)
* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Mary Barnes
* Marc Blanchet
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson (incoming IAB, April 2016)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the nomination deadline for IAB Chair is 25 February 2016.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 95 will be held on 26 February 2016.


An item on the IOT Semantic Interoperability Workshop was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 February 2016 and 10 February 2016 business meetings were approved.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 95


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 95. Cindy Morgan will follow up with a call for agenda items on the IAB list.


Cindy Morgan noted that the deadline for Program meetings to request food and beverage service or special A/V equipment is Friday, 11 March 2016.


The IANA Evolution Program meeting is currently scheduled opposite the WG Chairs training lunch on Wednesday.


### 3. draft-iab-irtf-chair-description


The community review of draft-iab-irtf-chair-description ends today; the current version addresses all of the comments received. The document will be added to the agenda of the next IAB business meeting for approval.


### 4. draft-iab-rfc3677bis


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-rfc3677bis out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message, asking for comments to be directed to the architecture-discuss list.


### 5. Errata 4614 on RFC 7749


Joe Hildebrand will investigate Errata 4614 on RFC 7749 and report back to the IAB.


### 6. ISOC Board of Trustees Search Chair


Noting that two of the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates are from Google, Ted Hardie asked for a volunteer to co-chair the ISOC Board of Trustees search committee. Suzanne Woolf agreed to serve as co-chair.


### 7. IOT Semantic Interoperability (IOTSI) Workshop


Dave Thaler reported that 54 papers have been submitted for the IOTSI workshop; the workshop can accommodate 40 people. The workshop committee is currently reviewing the papers and will decide which papers to accept by 27 February 2016. IAB members who want to attend the IOTSI workshop should send their requests to the workshop program committee.


Dave Thaler noted that the workshop program committee is planning blog posts to raise awareness about the workshop.


### 8. RSOC Program Review


Robert Sparks updated the IAB on the current state of the RSOC Program. The RSOC’s purpose is to provide a focus for the IAB’s responsibility to manage the RFC Editor function, including the RSE. This focus includes:


* Overseeing the RFC Series
* Assisting the RSE in policy matters as needed
* Overseeing the RSE


Robert Sparks noted that current RSOC member Alexey Melnikov will be stepping down from the RSOC in April when he is seated on the IESG. The IAB is in the process of appointing a new RSOC member in time to have that person in place by IETF 95.


Recent RSOC activities include:


* Review of revised RPC SLA
* Selection of RPC vendor
* Evaluation of RSE 2014/2015 performance
* Establishment of RSE 2015/2016 priorities
* Recommendations to the IAB regarding RSE contract extension and expanded compensation
* Preparation of draft-iab-5741bis
* Review of RFC Format document suite
* Review/Oversight of projects, including:
	+ Digital preservation
	+ DOI
	+ HTTPS in references
	+ Statistics and Metrics


Upcoming RSOC activities include:


* Transition to new RFC format
* Evaluation of RSE 2015/2016 performance
* Establishment of RSE 2016/2017 priorities


Robert Sparks observed that the current RSOC agenda is driven by the RSE. Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair) noted that Heather Flanagan (RSE) does review the draft agenda with her before each meeting, and that the agendas build on what happened in previous RSOC meetings.


Andrew Sullivan noted that Heather Flanagan is the RFC Editor’s liaison to the IAB, but she is not subscribed to the IAB mailing list. After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to add Heather to the list.


### 9. Executive Session: RSOC Program


The RSOC Program was discussed in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB appointment to the RSOC was discussed in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees was discussed in an executive session.


