
Minutes of the 2016-04-20 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Guest:


* Hannes Tschofenig (present for item 5 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded Program Leads to sign their Programs up to be reviewed at future IAB business meetings.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 23 March 2016, 3 April 2016, and 7 April 2016 business meetings remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed. Erik Nordmark took an action to ask Dan Romascanu to add an item to the next IETF-IEEE 802 coordination meeting on enabling use of local addresses for virtualization and IoT.


### 2. IRTF Chair Appointment


Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations for the IRTF Chair appointment. Lars Eggert will put together a list of additional organizations that the call for nominations should be forwarded to and add that to the wiki for future reference. Mat Ford will follow up with Greg Wood about using social media to further distribute the call for nominations.


### 3. IESG Membership on IAB Programs


The IAB discussed whether IETF Area Directors should automatically be added to IAB Programs that are relevant to their Areas. After discussion, the IAB agreed that Program membership should remain on a case-by-case basis. Programs should seek the most relevant, qualified membership they can, which may include IESG members, but IESG members will not be added automatically.


### 4. draft-iab-rfc3677bis-00


The community review period for draft-iab-rfc3677bis, IETF ISOC Board of Trustee Appointment Procedures, ended on 23 March 2016. Joe Hildebrand reported that an update is coming to the ISOC Bylaws regarding mid-term vacancies, and that he has been asked to hold off on updating this document until the bylaws change is complete.


### 5. Internet of Things Software Update Workshop (IoTSU)


The IAB discussed whether to sponsor the upcoming Internet of Things Software Update Workshop (IoTSU) being planned for Dublin in June. The IAB agreed that the workshop sounds like a good idea, but were not clear on whether it should be an IAB-sponsored workshop. Dave Thaler took an action to find out whether the IoTSU workshop proposal fits within the criteria set out in the IAB workshop guidelines.


### 6. Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) Liaison


Dave Thaler reported that he had investigated whether the OCF fits the liaison criteria for the IETF.


The joint IRTF/W3C/OCF meeting demonstrated that there was benefit to coordination between the IETF and the OCF in both directions. Currently, there are 1-2 individuals participating in both organizations. OCF specifications are publicly available once they are published, but the draft specifications are only open to members. Thus, a liaison manager would need to have member access to the OCF in order to be effective. OCF membership is also required for access to their mailing lists.


After evaluation, it was unclear what work towards the IETF’s goals could be accomplished by forming a formal liaison with OCF that could not be accomplished informally. Since Dave Thaler is currently participating in both organizations, he will continue to monitor the situation and report back if it looks like a formal liaison relationship is needed in the future.


### 7. Tech Chats


Cindy Morgan will start an email thread about reviving IAB tech chats.


### 8. IAB Retreat


Andrew Sullivan asked IAB members to add potential retreat topics to the wiki by 27 April 2016 so that the agenda can be put together.


### 9. Executive Session: IANA Transition


The IANA transition was discussed in an executive session.


