
Minutes of the 2017-01-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


“Report from the IGF meeting” was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 December 2016 tech chat and business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that there had not been any activity about future technical plenaries over the holiday break.


### 3. draft-iab-carisreport


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-carisreport as an Informational RFC pending a new revision to address outstanding nits. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC Editor once the new revision is posted.


### 4. draft-iab-ccg-appoint-process


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-ccg-appoint-process as an Informational RFC pending a new revision to address outstanding nits. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC Editor once the new revision is posted.


### 5. draft-iab-protocol-transitions


The IAB approved sending out draft-iab-protocol-transitions for community review pending a new revision to incorporate a change proposed by Andrew Sullivan. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message once the new revision is posted.


### 6. IAB Comments on ICANN “identifier technology health indicators” project


The IAB approved the text for the IAB comments on “Identifier Technology Health Indicators: Definition.” Andrew Sullivan will send the comments to ICANN on behalf of the IAB, and Cindy Morgan will post them on the IAB website.


### 7. Response to liaison from ETSI NGP ISP


The IAB approved the text of the response to the liaison from ETSI NGP ISP pending updates to the text to be made by Ralph Droms.


### 8. Stability of the domain namespace


The IAB discussed the recent [SSAC Advisory on the Stability of the](https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090-%20en.pdf) [Domain Namespace](https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090-%20en.pdf). Andrew Sullivan will send a note to Jonne Soininen, the IETF’s liaison to the ICANN Board, letting him know that the report is being discussed by the IAB and in the IAB Names and Identifiers Program. Ted Hardie asked that this item be put back on the agenda for the next IAB meeting.


The IAB agreed to add Allison Mankin to the IAB Names and Identifiers Program.


### 9. Report from the IGF meeting


Jari Arkko updated the IAB on the recent IGF meeting, noting that [a blog entry](https://www.ietf.org/blog/2017/01/igf-2016/) had been posted on the topic. Jari added that the IGF is always looking for IETF people to come to their meetings and give the technical perspective.


### 10. 2017 Retreat


Lee Howard asked when the IAB will set a date for their 2017 retreat. Russ Housley replied that the IAB will wait for NomCom to name the incoming members of the IAB.


### 11. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


