
Minutes of the 2017-01-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that responses to the RSE survey for the RPC’s 2016 evaluation are due by the end of January.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to respond to the Doodle poll on choosing a time for the IETF 98 BOF coordination call.


An item on the NTIA IOT Paper was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 December 2016 tech chat and business meeting and the 4 January 2017 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 11 January 2017 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Cindy Morgan noted that a dry run of the IETF 98 Tech Plenary is being planned for 8 March 2017. Brian Trammell and Lee Howard have an open action item to summarize the current state of the plenary planning; Brian asked for time on the 1 February 2017 agenda to discuss this further.


### 3. draft-iab-rfc-preservation


The IAB approved sending draft-iab-rfc-preservation out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send out the community review message.


### 4. IANA Evolution Program Review


Russ Housley updated the IAB on the current state of the IANA Evolution Program.


The IANA Stewardship Transition happened on 1 October 2016.


The main focus of the IANA Evolution Program is still on the oversight of the IANA functions. The Program also acts as a think-tank and advises the IAB on strategic and liaison issues. The Program may also be called upon for general insight and guidance on matters relating to ICANN and the new PTI.


The Program had several work items specific to the IANA Stewardship Transition; with the transition complete, those work items are now done. Other recent Program activities include a document on the process for the IAB to fill seats on the Community Coordination Group (CCG), which is in the RFC Editor Queue), as well as the signing of the new supplemental agreement with ICANN on the IANA functions.


Russ Housley suggested that with the IANA Stewardship Transition complete, it is time to make the membership of the Program smaller. The IAB agreed; Russ will send an email to the Program list asking who wants to remain involved. Russ also noted that the Program will need a new IAB Lead in March 2017 when he steps down from the IAB.


The Program web page should also be updated to point to the CCG appointment process document once the RFC is published, and the scope of work should be updated to follow CCWG Workstream 2.


### 5. IEEE-IETF coordination activity


Via e-vote, the IAB approved Russ Housley as the new IETF liaison manager to IEEE-SA. Russ Housley reported that the transition is already underway, and that the next coordination meeting with the IEEE 802 is on Monday, 30 January 2017.


### 6. NTIA IOT Paper


Dave Thaler reported that the US NTIA recently published a paper titled “The Benefits, Challenges, and Potential Roles for the Government in Fostering the Advancement of the Internet of Things” which incorporates feedback from the industry, including the IAB’s comments from last year. NTIA invited further comments on the published paper.


Dave Thaler, Russ Housley, and Jari Arkko agreed to review the paper and report back by 8 February 2017 on whether there is anything on which the IAB should submit comments.


### 7. Executive Session: IESG Slate Discussion


In an executive session, the IAB confirmed the IESG slate presented by the IETF NomCom. Robert Sparks recused himself from the confirmation process for the ART AD. Ted Hardie recused himself from the confirmation process for the OPS AD. Joe Hildebrand and Martin Thomson recused themselves from the confirmation process for the SEC AD.


Erik Nordmark will follow up with the NomCom Chair.


