
Minutes of the 2017-06-28 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)


##### Guest:


* Peter Yee (NomCom Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on the IETF-ICANN relationship was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 7 June 2017 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 14 June 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries (Plenary Planning Program)


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program had a conference call that resulted in several people taking action items to schedule speakers for tech chats. Gabriel Montenegro added that he has confirmed Jun Murai for a tech chat on 23 August 2017.


### 3. IETF Evolution


Lee Howard asked if the discussion on IETF evolution should be deferred to Prague. Alissa Cooper asked what the desired end goal of the discussion would be. Lee replied that he was not sure yet; he would like the IAB to talk about whether there are ways to improve the outputs of the IETF.


Alissa Cooper noted that one piece of that discussion might overlap with an IESG discussion on semantic versioning and structures for IETF specifications. The IAB agreed; Alissa will add this topic to the agenda for the joint IAB/IESG lunch on Sunday in Prague.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 99


The IAB reviewed and discussed their agenda for IETF 99. Cindy Morgan will update the wiki and calendar based on the discussions.


The IAB discussed which IRTF RG to review in Prague. Allison Mankin will check with the ICCRG chairs to see if they are available on Thursday morning in Prague.


### 5. BOF and PRG Coverage for IETF 99


The IAB agreed on the following coverage for BOFs and proposed RGs at IETF 99:


* BANANA: Brian Trammell is one of the BOF chairs. Gabriel Montenegro will cover the BOF.
* IASA20: Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, and Allison Mankin will cover the BOF.
* IDEAS: Erik Nordmark is the IAB shepherd. Jari Arkko and Jeff Tantsura will cover the BOF.
* NETSLICING: Jeff Tantsura is the IAB shepherd. Jari Arkko, Gabriel Montenegro, and Martin Thomson tentatively agreed to cover the BOF.
* PANRG: Brian Trammell is one of the PRG chairs. Lee Howard will cover the BOF.


Allison Mankin noted that there will also be a side meeting on DIN, which is a potential new proposed RG.


### 6. 3GPP Lunch Meeting in Prague


Ted Hardie reported that people have been found to lead the discussion on “3GPP & IETF Collaboration on 5G” on Tuesday at lunchtime in Prague.


### 7. draft-iab-marnew-report-00


Brian Trammell asked the IAB to please send comments on draft-iab-marnew-report to Natasha Rooney and CC the IAB. The document needs a new revision before it can go out for community review.


### 8. FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN


The IAB briefly discussed the [FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN](http://transition.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2017/db0622/%20DOC-345474A1.pdf), and whether the IAB should respond. Robert Sparks agreed to draft text for a response and send it to the IAB for review.


### 9. EName Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that several additional conflicts came to light after the EName Workshop call for papers went out. The IAB agreed that the workshop program committee should find new dates for the workshop and resend the call for papers.


### 10. IETF-ICANN Cooperation


The IAB will invite Jonne Soininen to the Monday breakfast meeting in Prague to discuss the IETF-ICANN relationship. Jonne does not plan to stand for another term as the IETF’s liaison to ICANN, and would like to help set the expectations for future candidates.


Ted Hardie noted that the ICANN CEO is looking for ways to foster technical engagement between the ICANN and the IETF, given that not all of the ICANN constituencies participate in the IETF. He asked the IAB to think about that before the meeting in Prague.


### 11. Community Coordination Group Co-chair Confirmation


The IAB confirmed Russ Housley as co-chair of the Community Coordination Group (CCG). Ted Hardie will follow up with Russ on this.


