
Minutes of the 2017-05-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura (present for items 3-9)
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf (present for items 4-9)


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Items on the IAB Job Description for NomCom and the ISE Search were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 12 April 2017 and the 26 April 2017 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Ted Hardie asked the Plenary Planning Program to start thinking about potential topics and speakers for IETF 100 now, noting that travel to Singapore for some speakers may be an issue.


Lee Howard reported that he had a call with some people from ISOC earlier this week about the Internet in developing economies. The Program plans to start organizing tech chats on the topic soon.


### 3. Unicode 9 and 10, UTS#39, and IDNA and SMTPUTF8/EAI


The IAB discussed the draft text for a liaison statement to Unicode. Ted Hardie will update the text based on the discussion, with input from Gabriel Montenegro on the security concerns and Joe Hildebrand on some of the PRECIS context. The goal is to have the text ready for an e-vote by 8 May 2017.


### 4. EName Workshop Proposal


Ted Hardie sent out an updated proposal for a workshop on EName (formerly Maintaining Internet Namespace Coherence). The timeline has the workshop happening sometime in September. Mark Nottingham noted that QUIC is planning an interim meeting around the same time, and there may be an opportunity to hold the workshop and the interim in the same region to reduce travel costs.


Robert Sparks asked who the intended audience was for this workshop. Ted Hardie replied that in addition to IETF participants, he would like to send the call for papers out to the .onion and Namecoin communities. Mark Nottingham suggested that the browser community should be involved as well.


Ted Hardie will update the workshop proposal based on the feedback received.


### 5. 2017 Retreat


Ted Hardie, Cindy Morgan, and Robert Sparks will draft an agenda for the IAB retreat. Mark Nottingham will only be available to join the retreat remotely after 1600 EDT; he will send a list of the proposed topics that he is particularly interested in so that they can be scheduled accordingly.


### 6. IESG News We Can Use


Suzanne Woolf sent the draft 2017 communications plan out to the IAB.


### 7. IAB Job Description for NomCom


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to track how much time they spend doing IAB work between now and the retreat and send that information to Cindy Morgan. Cindy will then put together an anonymized histogram showing the time spent on IAB work, so that the IAB can use that when putting together the IAB job description for NomCom.


### 8. ISE Search


The IAB approved the text for the message announcing the ISE search committee. Robert Sparks will ask Cindy Morgan to send the message out for him.


### 9. Executive Session: Community Coordination Group (CCG) Appointment


The IAB appointment to the CCG was discussed in an executive session. Ted Hardie, Jari Arkko, and Suzanne Woolf will interview the candidates.


