
Minutes of the 2017-11-29 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved via e-vote:


* 4 October 2017 business meeting
* 18 October 2017 tech chat and business meeting
* 25 October 2017 business meeting


The following meeting minutes remain under review. Cindy Morgan will send e-ballots to the IAB to approve these minutes:


* 1 November 2017 business meeting
* 12 November 2017 business meeting
* 13 November 2017 business meeting


#### 1.4. Action Item Review (items marked with \* are on this agenda)


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


The Plenary Planning Program is working to set up tech chats with potential speakers for the next few technical plenaries.


Lee Howard reported that Greg Wood has drafted some “lessons learned” text for plenary speakers and moderators. Once that has been reviewed, it will be added to the IAB wiki.


Allison Mankin asked if the IAB or the Plenary Planning Program has sought feedback from the community on what they would like to see in technical plenaries. Alissa Cooper replied that the IAB previously had reviewed past plenaries to see if there were common patterns in plenaries that worked well.


Ted Hardie noted that if the Program wanted to add a question to the IETF 100 meeting survey about the technical plenary, they should contact Alexa Morris about that soon.


### 3. TC46/SC9 Liaisons


Ted Hardie reminded the IAB that there is a request to fast-track the publication of RFC 8141 as an ISO Standard. Ted Hardie will set up a call with Heather Flanagan, Suzanne Woolf, and people from ISO TC46 to discuss the next steps.


### 4. Net Neutrality


The IAB discussed whether they had anything general to say about net neutrality. Mark Nottingham and Brian Trammell are working on a draft about Internet choke points that might be relevant; an item was added to the agenda of the 13 December 2017 business meeting to discuss that further.


Brian Trammell noted that RFC 4084 describes the situation from the consumer side, and suggested that a similar document describing the business and technical sides of the issue might be helpful.


Erik Nordmark observed that any documents on the topic need to make clear who their intended audience is.


### 5. ICANN Technical Liaison Group (TLG) Appointment


Cindy Morgan noted that the call for community feedback on the ICANN TLG candidates will go out on 30 November 2017.


Suzanne Woolf, Erik Nordmark, and Allison Mankin agreed to interview the candidates. Suzanne will check with the IAB’s liaison to the ICANN Board to see if he has any input on the questions the interview team will be asking.


### 6. Executive Session: RSOC Membership


This agenda item was deferred to a future IAB teleconference so that Robert Sparks could participate in the discussion.


### 7. Other business


Ted Hardie reported that Kathy Brown made a [blog post](https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/2017/11/passing-ceo-baton/) announcing that she will be stepping down as the CEO of the Internet Society.


