
Minutes of the 2017-02-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The BOF coordination call for IETF 98 has been scheduled for Wednesday, 15 February 2017 at 0800 PST.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 11 January 2017 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 25 January 2017 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. IETF 98 Tech Plenary


Lee Howard updated the IAB on plans for the IETF 98 technical plenary; a dry run is scheduled for 8 March 2017. Allison Mankin is following up with the speakers about the expectations for that session.


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program is looking into potential speakers for the IETF 99 plenary, tentatively on the Internet in developing economies. The Program is still discussing potential topics for IETF 100.


### 3. FCC NOI on 5G security


The IAB discussed the FCC’s 5G Security NOI. The IAB agreed that it would be better for the IAB to point to general guidance on the topic, rather than responding directly to the NOI. Ted Hardie will work with the Privacy and Security Program, Jari Arkko, and Suresh Krishnan on a document about 5G security.


### 4. Proposed statement on OCSP stapling


The IAB approved the text for the IAB statement on OCSP stapling. Cindy Morgan will post the statement on the IAB website and send it out to the IETF-Announce list.


### 5. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Russ Housley, Brian Trammell, and Suzanne Woolf volunteered to conduct interviews with the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates. Cindy Morgan will set up a Doodle poll to schedule the interviews.


### 6. Executive Session: IETF Attendance


The IAB discussed a response to concerns about attending IETF meetings in an executive session.


