
Minutes of the 2017-03-08 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (incoming IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham (incoming IAB)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Jeff Tantsura (incoming IAB)


##### Guests:


* David Clark (present through item 2 only)
* Niels ten Oever (present through item 2 only)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan asked the incoming and continuing IAB members to fill out the Doodle polls to select the times for the IAB teleconferences after IETF 98.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that nominations for IAB Chair are currently open; nominations should be sent to Andrew Sullivan.


An executive session on the ART Area Director confirmation was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 1 March 2017 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Technical Plenary Dry Run


The IAB reviewed a draft of Niels ten Oever’s presentation on human rights considerations in protocol designs. David Clark suggested several examples that he could speak to that would continue the discourse with the community during the plenary. The IAB agreed to have Niels speak first, followed by David, and to limit each speaker to about 12 minutes before opening up the discussion with the community.


The IAB will do a second dry run of the technical plenary on Wednesday morning in Chicago.


### 3. Monthly Reports


#### 3.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
7 March 2017

Topics:

  I. APEC Senior Officials’ Meeting 1 (SOM1) Electronic Commerce 
     Steering Group and Ad Hoc Steering Group on the Internet Economy
 II. IGF Open Consultations and MAG Meeting
III. Defining norms of cyber-behavior (Microsoft and China)
 IV. IETF 98 – Public Policy Program, IETF Fellowship
  V. Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium
 VI. RSA Conference

I. APEC Senior Officials’ Meeting 1 (SOM1) Electronic Commerce Steering 
Group and Ad Hoc Steering Group on the Internet Economy (21-28 February 
2017)
The Internet Society attended as an invited guest in the APEC ECSG and 
AHSGIE meetings, presenting the Internet Society 2016 Global Internet 
Report and Future Internet initiative, as well as participating in 
policy discussions on privacy, e-commerce and the Internet. The APEC 
Privacy Framework has been updated and will be formally launched this 
year (details to be determined).

II. IGF Open Consultations and MAG Meeting (1-3 March, Geneva, 
Switzerland)
The first meeting of the IGF 2017 Multistakeholder Advisory Group aimed 
to evaluate the IGF 2016 and intercessional processes, and to start the 
planning for IGF 2017. ISOC's Regional Policy Advisor for Latin America, 
Raquel Gatto, newly selected to join the MAG, and Constance Bommelaer 
participated.

III. Defining norms of cyber-behavior (Microsoft and China)
In the context of discussions around norms of state behavior for cyber-
conflict (such as at the UN Governmental Group of Experts [1]), 
Microsoft recently shared its vision of a “Digital Geneva 
Convention” [2], where the Internet’s infrastructure, private sector and 
civilians would be explicitly spared from the collateral damages of 
nation-state attacks. Meanwhile, China just issued its "International 
strategy for cooperation on cyberspace” [3], which covers a range of 
domains including cyber-sovereignty, cybersecurity, critical information 
infrastructure and Internet governance issues, including ICANN and the 
IGF.

[1] <https://www.un.org/disarmament/topics/informationsecurity/>
[2] <https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2017/02/14/need-digital- 
geneva-convention/>
[3] <http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2017-03/01/c_136094371.htm>

IV. IETF 98 – Public Policy Program, IETF Fellowship
From March 26 to March 29, the Internet Society will hold its Public 
Policy Program at IETF 98 in Chicago. Over 20 policymakers from 17 
countries will participate in the program. Details of the IETF 
Fellowship to IETF 98 are also now available [1].

[1] <https://www.internetsociety.org/what-we-do/education-and- 
leadership-programmes/ietf-and-ois-programmes/ietf-98-fellows>

V. Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium
The NDSS Symposium was held in San Diego 26 Feb - 1 Mar [1]. The event 
began with two workshops, Useable Security [2] and DNS Privacy. The 
Useable Security Mini Conference was the continuation of a series of 
successful workshops on the same topic held at previous NDSS symposia. 
The DNS Privacy workshop brought together researchers and IETF DNS 
privacy experts in a dynamic discussion on the topic [4]. 

The main symposium featured 2 keynotes and 68 peer reviewed academic 
paper presentations. The first keynote was J. Alex Halderman from 
University of Michigan on 'Recount 2016: A Security Audit of the 
Presidential Election' [5]. The second keynote was J. Trent Adams from 
Paypal on 'Securing the Ecosystem - Collaborating Inside and Out' [6]. 
Sessions of papers included User Authentication, TLS, ToR, Mobile 
Privacy and others. Slides and recordings will be available soon.

[1] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017>
[2] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/usec-mini-conference-programme>
[3] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/dns-privacy-workshop-2017-programme>
[4] <https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/tech-matters/2017/03/dns- 
privacy-solutions-emerging-deployment-lags>
[5] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/ndss-2017-programme/ndss-2017-keynote-j-alex-halderman>
[6] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/ndss-2017-programme/ndss-2017-keynote-trent-adams>

VI. RSA Conference (San Francisco, 14-17 February 2017)
Olaf Kolkman joined Bruce Schneier on a panel at the RSA Conference on 
the "Internet of Insecurity: Can Industry Solve It or Is Regulation 
Required?" moderated by Craig Spiezle of the Online Trust Alliance. To 
learn more, please read Olaf’s blog post [1].

[1] <https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/tech-matters/2017/02/internet- 
insecurity-can-industry-solve-it-or-regulation-required>
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 3.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


\* nothing this month


–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


Allison Mankin added that she is working with Lars Eggert on the IRTF Chair transition.


#### 3.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Reference Japanese Label Generation Rules (LGR) for the Second Level
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/japanese-lgr-second-level-2017-01-27-en)
Closing date: March 8th, 2017

Recommendations to Improve ICANN's Transparency (https://www.icann.org/
public-comments/ccwg-acct-draft-recs-2017-02-21-en)
Closing date: April 10th, 2017

Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) Implementation Guidelines 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/idn-guidelines-2017-03-03-en)
Closing date: April 17th, 2017


II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

The time since the last report has been relatively short and it has been 
the time between the ICANN board workshop and the ICANN meeting, which 
starts this week. Therefore, there isn't really anything meaningful to 
report at this point. The report after the ICANN meeting next week will 
most probably me more interesting.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN meeting, 11-16 March, 2017
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


Suzanne Woolf and Andrew Sullivan will review the Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) Implementation Guidelines and make a recommendation about whether the IAB should comment.


Russ Housley noted that Work Stream 2 is starting up; he will make sure the IANA Evolution Program is aware.


#### 3.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 8 March 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the January 2017 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.
  
- The draft 2017 Service Level Agreement has been circulated to IETF 
Leadership for review.  Next steps are for the IAB and IAOC to review. 
  
Other News:
- The media type expert review times issue is being discussed with the 
IESG.  Follow-up meetings will take place in Chicago. We will provide an 
update to the IAB in the next liaison report.
 
Meeting Notes Reporting:
 
No meeting minutes to report.  The next informal meeting will be at the 
Chicago IETF.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 3.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

- Format
Development of the tools continues; a wiki page off the Tools site 
tracking the work is expected shortly. The CSS is largely done, and 
community feedback has been very positive so far. There is still an open 
question on whether or not to use the small JavaScript to allow for a 
hamburger menu on mobile devices. This will be discussed further in 
Chicago at IETF 98.

- Style Guide
The RSE and senior RFC Production Center (RPC) staff are starting to 
work on an update to RFC 7322, the RFC Style Guide. The update will 
incorporate changes to support the new format, such as guidance on 
images and characters allowed for citation tags. The goal is to have 
this ready for publication as the new format rolls out.

- RPC evaluation
The RPC evaluation for 2016 is complete, having been reviewed by the 
RSOC and delivered to the IAD and the vendor, AMS. The review was very 
positive, and the RSE is now working with the RPC to determine what 
incremental improvements might be made based on the feedback received. 

RPC Update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Q1 2017: So far this year, 36% of the published RFCs have been part of a 
cluster. While only slightly higher in terms of percentage (average is 
33% over the last two years) the complexity of these clusters has been 
significant. February was also a very good month in terms of author 
responsiveness, with a higher than usual level of attention on AUTH48 as 
authors turned around their responses quickly.

IETF98
Most of the RFC Production Center will be present in Chicago, 
so please stop by to say hello to the team.  Alice will not be 
present, as she is currently on maternity leave after welcoming 
a healthy baby girl earlier this year.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 98


The IAB briefly discussed their agenda for IETF 98. Mat Ford will find out if Sally Wentworth is available to give an update on the policy landscape to the IAB on Wednesday morning.


### 5. BOF Coverage at IETF 98


This item was not discussed due to time constraints, but Cindy Morgan noted that each BOF has at least one IAB member signed up to cover it.


### 6. draft-iab-protocol-transitions-07


Dave Thaler reported that he has a version -08 of draft-iab-protocol-transitions that he believes addresses all outstanding comments. The IAB will review the document before the next IAB meeting, where they will vote on whether to approve it.


### 7. 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF


The IAB approved the 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF. Andrew Sullivan  

will inform the IAOC.


### 8. 2017 Retreat


Cindy Morgan reported that AMS is working on contracting a hotel for the 2017 IAB retreat. A wiki page has been set up for IAB members to brainstorm potential agenda topics for the retreat.


### 9. CCG Appointment Process


The IAB discussed the process for appointing people to the CCG, and agreed that in 2017, the IAB will appoint one person for a one-year term and two people for two-year terms.


Russ Housley noted that when Alissa Cooper is seated as IETF Chair at IETF 98, she will also become a Trustee of the IETF Trust and will need to vacate her seat on the CCG.


### 10. Executive session: ART Area Director Confirmation


The ART Area Director confirmation was discussed in an executive session.


