
Minutes of the 2017-02-08 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (incoming IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (ICANN Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 98 will be held on Wednesday, 15 February 2017.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 25 January 2017 business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 1 February 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
7 February 2017

Topics:

  I. Message from ISOC CEO on U.S. Travel Ban
 II. IGF 2016 outcomes published
III. CSTD Intercessional Panel (23-25 January)
 IV. CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation (26-27 January)

I. Message from ISOC CEO on U.S. Travel Ban
ISOC President and CEO Kathy Brown sent the following message to members 
at the end of January:

“Dear Colleagues, 

As a global organization with trustees, employees, chapters and members 
all over the world, we are deeply troubled by actions taken by the U.S. 
on Friday that placed immediate and unprecedented bans on entry to the 
United States of citizens and refugees of seven majority-Muslim 
countries.

Not only will the purported bans place an unwarranted burden on people 
in our organization, it is an anathema to the Internet Society whose 
values rest firmly on a commitment to an open, globally connected 
community dedicated to the open, global Internet. We are encouraged by 
the countries who have rejected the U.S. action this weekend and by the 
human rights organizations that have stood in solidarity with countless 
refugees and travelers who were so abruptly halted in entering the U.S.

We are watching developments; I will keep you updated as we know more.

Kathy Brown
President/CEO”

II. IGF 2016 outcomes published
Following a year-long process of intersessional activities, the complete 
list of IGF 2016 outputs is now available. These outputs are developed 
in an open bottom-up multistakeholder fashion, all experts are welcome 
to join. New themes of work for IGF 2017 will be discussed early March 
at the IGF MAG meeting. 
- BPF Gender: Outcome resource 2016 [1] (access and gender) & 
recommendations roadmap [2] (online abuse and gender-based violence);
-  BPF on Internet exchange points (IXPs) [3];
-  BPF on commercial and economic incentives to deploy IPv6 [4];
-  BPF Cybersecurity [5] (‘Building Confidence and Security in the use 
of Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs) through Enhanced 
Cooperation and Collaboration’); and
-  Policy Options for Connecting and Enabling the Next Billion(s)
(Phase II) [6].

[1] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/index.php?
q=filedepot_download/3406/437
[2] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/index.php?
q=filedepot_download/3406/185
[3] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/content/bpf-ixps
[4] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/content/bpf-ipv6
[5] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/content/bpf-cybersecurity
[6] http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/index.php?
q=filedepot_download/3416/412

III. CSTD Inter-sessional Panel (23-25 January)
ISOC participated in the Commission on Science and Trade for 
Development’s inter-sessional session, which is the main UN body related 
to the follow-up to the outcomes of the World Summit on the Information 
Society (WSIS). This year’s session had a dedicated focus on new 
innovative approaches on implementing the Sustainable Development Goals, 
and ISOC delivered a statement on the Internet’s role in supporting the 
2030 Agenda's implementation.

IV. CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation (26-27 January)
The group’s second meeting focused on the input received from the 
consultation on two questions: What are the high-level characteristics 
of enhanced cooperation, and recommendations in light of the group’s 
previous work. The discussion centred on the former question, focusing 
on identifying the high-level principles for good Internet Governance 
(transparency, etc.). ISOC’s position is guided by our multistakeholder 
governance attributes, which formed the basis of our written 
contribution (available here: http://unctad.org/meetings/en/
Contribution/WGEC2016_m2_c11_en.pdf).
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


Ted Hardie noted that there is likely to be activity from ISOC chapter members as well as ISOC global regarding the current travel ban to the United States. After discussion, the IAB agreed that it would be helpful to be aware of this activity when planning any IAB-organized activities. Ted will reach out to Mat Ford and let him know that the IAB may ask for this information in the future.


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
* Allison and Lars decided that our hand-over day will be Sun, Mar 26. 
So she will attend the breakfast with the IESG and any other following 
meetings.

* The T2TRG is planning an interim meeting with OCF in Amsterdam (at 
Renaissance) on 10th of March as well as a T2TRG work meeting in the 
area the day before, on 9th of March.

* ANRP prized for IETF-98 were announced: https://irtf.org/anrp

* ANRW 2017 is being planned for Prague, CFP is out: 
https://irtf.org/anrw/2017/cfp.html

* CFRG have completed the (initial) work on new curves.

* GAIA had their yearly workshop in late January:
https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~al773/gaiaworkshop/agenda.html
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Reference Japanese Label Generation Rules (LGR) for the Second Level 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/japanese-lgr-second-
level-2017-01-27-en)
Closing date: Marc 8th, 2017

II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

February ICANN board retreat 
---------------------------

Namespace issues were briefly discussed. There is a feeling in the ICANN 
board and the ICANN organization that more collaboration on the 
namespace topic would be needed. Though, the details of this 
collaboration was not discussed, yet, the feeling is that collaboration 
is most probably needed both on the technical and on more "policy" 
level. Especially, there is a feeling that as this discussion progresses 
technical clue from the IETF would be most welcomed. I think this is 
very positive and more cooperation and collaboration between the two 
organisations would most probably help both sides.

It might be good for the IAB to think what a "cooperation with ICANN on 
namespace issues" would mean for the IETF. What needs and interests 
would IETF have. In my mind, this is not a relitigation of anything done 
in the past, but a positive way forward with the different roles the two 
organisations have. For instance, IAB might want to think what role 
could the TEG for instance have in bringing IETF related clue to ICANN.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN meeting, 11-16 March, 2017
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


Andrew Sullivan noted that the IAB Names and Identifiers Program should provide advice on what cooperation with ICANN on namespaces issues would mean for the IETF. Suzanne Woolf noted that discussions are ongoing on the Program mailing list, and that the topic is also likely to be discussed at the DNSOP interim meeting scheduled for 16 February 2017.


#### 2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 8 February 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- The statistics are not yet available for January 2017.  This will be 
reported in the next IANA Services Liaison Report to the IAB.
 
- The annual review of processing protocol parameter related requests 
has been completed.  The confidential SOC2 report, prepared by 
Pricewaterhouse Cooper, is provided to the IETF
Leadership for its review.  Delivery of the report is expected in the 
next month.  There were no exceptions related to the delivery of the
protocol parameters function.
 
- The draft 2017 Service Level Agreement has been circulated to IETF 
Leadership for review.  There are no major changes to this agreement.
  
Other News:
- The 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey for the IANA Services has
been posted: 
http://www.iana.org/reports/2017/customer-survey-20170111.pdf
94% of the respondents expressed satisfaction with the service.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
No meeting minutes to report.  The call scheduled for January 23, 2017 
was deemed not needed and therefore was cancelled.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


Dave Thaler noted that some media type applications requests have been  

waiting for expert review for around three months. Suresh Krishnan  

will raise the issue with the IESG, who appoints the designated  

experts.


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

Format
The format tool developers, Henrik Levkowetz of Elf Tools and Sean
Leonard of SeanTek, have met with the project managers, Heather Flanagan
(RSE) and Robert Sparks. There will be a dashboard of goals and
milestones off the Tools pages to keep people informed of the status of
the development effort.

Digital Preservation
The I-D describing the general goals and expectations of digital
preservation for RFCs, draft-iab-rfc-preservation, has been sent to the
community in a Call for Comments. So far, comments received (mostly)
request that we keep paper copies.

RFC Production Center evaluation
A questionnaire was sent to forty-one individuals, including the IESG,
IAB, IRSG, and ISE, as well as twelve randomly selected authors who had
RFCs published in 2016, to collect feedback on the performance of the
RPC in 2016. Of those forty-one individuals, nineteen have responded.
Responses received were positive, with some interesting ideas for where
the editing and publication process might improve. The RSE's evaluation,
as well as the RPC's self-evaluation, was sent to the RSOC by the RSE
and will be discussed on the next RSOC call.

RPC update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
Q1 2017: 25 documents were published in January but that is equivalent
to 37 average-size documents (average RFC is 24 pgs/doc). The average
was largely impacted by a few sizable documents (e.g., one was more than
200 pages).

- Alice Russo on Maternity Leave
Alice Russo is on maternity leave through May 2017. Coverage is in place
within the RPC.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. NTIA IOT Paper


Dave Thaler, Jari Arkko, and Russ Housley reviewed NTIA’s [Request for Comments on the Benefits, Challenges, and Potential Roles for the Government in Fostering the Advancement of the Internet of Things](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/federal-register-notice/2017/request-%20comments-benefits-challenges-and-potential-roles-government) to see if there is anything that requires IAB comment.


After discussion, the IAB agreed that they have comments about privacy and about software updates. Jari Arkko, Russ Housley, and Dave Thaler will draft text and circulate it to the IAB before the next IAB meeting on 22 February 2017.


### 4. draft-iab-iotsu-workshop-01


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-iotsu-workshop-01 out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 5. draft-iab-rzerc-01


The IAB reviewed the open comments on draft-iab-rzerc-01. Cindy Morgan will update the document to address the comments received and put the document back on the agenda of the 22 February 2017 meeting for approval.


### 6. IAB Shepherd for Glass-to-Glass Internet Ecosystem (GGIE)


After discussion, Andrew Sullivan agreed to shepherd the Glass-to-Glass Internet Ecosystem (GGIE) BOF request.


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business, and the meeting was adjourned.


