
Minutes of the 2017-01-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Russ Housley
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Sarah Banks (RSOC Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An executive session on project-internal mailing lists was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 December 2016 tech chat and business meeting and the 4 January 2017 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
10 January 2017

Topics:

  I. New Report - State of DNSSEC Deployment 2016
 II. Internet Governance Forum, Guadalajara, Mexico
III. ISOC’s written contribution to the CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation
 IV. ISOC’s annual report to the CSTD on the WSIS implementation
  V. IXP development
 VI. Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium

I. New Report - State of DNSSEC Deployment 2016
To bring together many different sources of information into a single 
document, the Internet Society published the "State of DNSSEC Deployment 
2016" [1] showing the ongoing growth of DNSSEC usage in both signing of 
domains and validation of signatures. The report gathers data and charts 
from a variety of industry sources and also includes case studies and 
discussions of deployment challenges. The intent is for this to be an 
annual report that can show the status of DNSSEC deployment year-over-
year. Comments and feedback are welcome.

[1] <https://www.internetsociety.org/doc/state-dnssec-deployment-2016>

II. Internet Governance Forum, Guadalajara, Mexico 
The 2016 IGF featured ISOC staff and Board members as speakers in more 
than 40 different sessions, spanning issues such as collaborative 
security, community networking, blockchain, and Internet access 
shutdowns. ISOC organized a well-attended forum on trends for the future 
of the Internet that included a highly interactive discussion. Kathy 
Brown’s speech in the opening ceremony urged stakeholders to find a 
coherent voice to address issues threatening the future of the Internet 
[2]. ISOC also sponsored more than 100 young individuals as IGF 
ambassadors and as participants of IGF Youth to participate in the 
event. The IGF further demonstrated its capacity to produce non-binding 
best practices around a range of key issues, including policies for 
connecting the ‘Next Billion’.

ISOC helped to convene a community networking forum to discuss 
community, technical, and sustainability issues and to facilitate many 
experts and practitioners from around the world to attend and meet in 
person for the first time in several years, including many that 
participate in the IRTF GAIA research group. Countries, projects, teams 
and ISOC partners included: Argentina (Altermundi), Bolivia, Colombia 
(Colnodo), Georgia, Honduras, India (DEF/W4C), Kyrgyzstan, Peru, Mexico 
(Rhizomatica), Nepal (Nepal Wireless Project), Spain (Guifi), APC, 
LACNIC, NSRC, and the Zenzeleni project. Many of these experts are 
exploring development of open source routers (Libremesh), participating 
in the IETF BMX discussions, and are seeking spectrum allocations from 
their governments as they develop networks where traditional 
telecommunications companies do not operate.

For a good overview of the week and the various sessions, including a 
final report, we also recommend the Geneva Internet Platform's Digital 
Watch - a project in partnership with ISOC that provided daily updates 
and reports from the IGF [3].

[2] <https://www.internetsociety.org/news/igf2016-internet-society- 
urges-all-internet-stakeholders-find-coherent-voice-key-issues>
[3] <http://digitalwatch.giplatform.org/events/11th-internet-governance- 
forum>

III. ISOC’s written contribution to the CSTD Working Group on Enhanced 
Cooperation
Following the Working Group’s first meeting in September, the group 
issued a call for input from all Internet stakeholders to share their 
thoughts on two questions to guide the group’s future work. The group's 
second meeting (26-27 January) will review the input received from all 
stakeholders. ISOC’s contribution [4] emphasizes the multistakeholder 
approach as the high-level characteristic of enhanced cooperation, and 
recommends continued focus in four areas: "Collaboration and collective 
responsibility to strengthen security”; "Increased collaboration to 
expand access”; “Strengthen participation of underrepresented 
stakeholders”; "Continued implementation of the improvements to the 
Internet Governance Forum”. 

[4] <http://unctad.org/meetings/en/Contribution/WGEC2016_m2_c11_en.pdf>

IV. ISOC’s annual report to the CSTD on the WSIS implementation
ISOC submitted a report to the UN Commission for Science and Technology 
for Development (CSTD) annual reporting on the implementation of the 
WSIS outcomes. The report [5] emphasized ISOC’s leadership in both the 
Trust and Access areas, with concrete illustrations of our work and its 
impact.

[5] <http://www.internetsociety.org/doc/flow-information-follow-world- 
summit-information-society-wsis-0>

V. IXP development
ISOC convened two IXP Workshops (Skopje, Macedonia with RIPE NCC and 
INEX, and Dushanbe, Tajikistan with GEANT) with local partners to 
discuss IXP best practices, community development, and the importance of 
developing a stronger interconnection environment.

ISOC, RIPE NCC and AfriNIC are working together to deploy RIPE NCC Atlas 
anchors in African IXP locations to facilitate additional data 
gathering. Servers and equipment have been provided in Kenya and 
Tanzania.

VI. Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium
The program for the Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) 
Symposium 26 Feb - 1 March in San Diego, CA is moving forward. The 
Program Committee has released the list of accepted papers that will 
constitute the core of the program [6]. There were 68 peer reviewed 
academic papers accepted for the symposium. Additionally, there are two 
co-located workshops being planned. The first, Useable Security [7] is a 
continuation of a series of successful workshops held on the topic in 
conjunction with NDSS. Additionally, there is a new workshop on DNS 
Privacy [8] that is being driven members of the IETF community 
interested in DNS privacy. 

[6] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/ndss-2017-programme>
[7] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/usable-security-usec-2017-call-papers>
[8] <https://www.internetsociety.org/events/ndss-symposium/ndss- 
symposium-2017/dns-privacy-workshop-2017-call-papers>
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–



```
* The SDNRG has closed.

* The proposed NMLRG will not be chartered.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Lars Eggert–


#### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)


Continuous Data-Driven Analysis of Root Server System Stability Draft 
Report (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/cdar-draft-2016-10-27-en)
Closing date: Jan 15th, 2017


II.  Upcoming topics that could be relevant
===========================================

Security and Stability Advisory Committee Advisory on the stability of 
the domain namespace
---------------------------

The SSAC has published an advice on the stability of the domain 
namespace (https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090-en.pdf). 
This is the SSAC view on the namespace and the advice is advice to the 
ICANN board. In the document, there are four specific recommendations, 
where some of the recommendations may have relationship to the IETF and 
the special names registry. Specifically, the advice calls for 
coordination with the IETF.

The ICANN board has not discussed this document per se. However, the 
discussion on topic related to is expected to come up on the board's 
agenda, soon.

ICANN#57 meeting in Hyderabad, November 3-9, 2016
----------------------------
ICANN had its Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Hyderabad in November. The 
meeting agenda starts to concentrate more on the operational topics now 
that the IANA stewardship transition is over. 

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN Board retreat, Feb 1-3 2017, Los Angeles
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 11 January 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 98% of processing goal times for the December 2016 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.
  
Other News:
- The report based on the 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey for the IANA 
Services has been completed.  Publication was delayed during the holiday 
break and the report will be posted in mid-January.
 
Meeting Notes Reporting:
 
MEETING MINUTES - BEGIN
Summary of PTI and IAB/IETF Meeting
Monday, November 14, 2016
Lunch Meeting at IETF-97, Seoul
1030 UTC
 
Attendees:
Jari Arkko, IETF chair
Michelle Cotton, PTI Protocol Parameters Engagement Manager
Elise Gerich, PTI President
Amanda Baber, PTI Lead IANA Services Specialist
Tobias Gondrom, IETF Trust Chair              
Russ Housley, IAB Lead for IANA Evolution Program
Ray Pelletier, IAD
Andrew Sullivan, IAB chair
Jonne Soininen, IAB liaison to ICANN Board
 
1.  Introductions
 
A. Baber will be recording the minutes for this meeting.
 
2.  General Updates – How are we doing?
 
From July 2016 through October 2016, more than 1281 IETF-related 
requests processed. 99.75 percent of requests completed within IANA 
processing goal times.
 
Port expert response times are trending downward, possibly because of 
the designation of two additional experts. We will continue to monitor 
this trend.
 
3.  July 2016 through October 2016 Stats reports
 
Two CORE tickets were open for a long time, largely because of an 
unresponsive expert. A replacement for the expert will be on board 
shortly. One ticket closed on Nov 1 and the other should close soon.
 
4.  Update on Previous Action Items
Closed 
M. Cotton had an action item to ask the AD for secondary experts for 
CORE. Secondary experts have been identified.
 
M. Cotton was to provide additional information for media type requests.  
Additional information is now being provided in the email that 
accompanies the monthly report. This practice will continue.
 
Open
Area Director has the action to identify a new primary expert for CORE.
 
5.  Update on Deliverables and Projects
 
The protocol parameter audit is in its third year. Some clarification 
language has been added to the controls. With the expiration of the 
contract with NTIA for the IANA functions, this report will cover a 
period ending September 30th instead of November 30th. Normal delivery 
time for these results is by March 30th of every year, but this report 
should be available earlier. Whether the next report will cover 14 
months or be shifted permanently from Oct 1 - Sep 30 has not been 
determined. A date change in the SLA may be required. 
 
The new SOC-2 will cover the numbers function as well. These controls 
for numbers were initially modeled after IETF controls.
 
Action Item:  M. Cotton to clarify dates for annual review.
 
6.  Other Discussion Topics
 
5226bis and language changes
M. Cotton is working with Barry Leiba on final edits to 5226bis. The 
document now requires language changes to comply with the IETF Trust’s 
IPR agreement. It was agreed that the document should have a new two-
week last call.  This will be confirmed with the authors and responsible 
AD.  This group won't review the document beforehand, but will review in parallel. 
 
Action Item: A. Sullivan will send a note to RFC Editor this week about 
the language changes. More discussion may be needed. Enforcement would 
have to be undertaken by the Trust.
 
CCG (Community Coordination Group)
Discussed role of CCG in PTI oversight. Their use of the term "quality 
control," as relates to PTI, refers to oversight of trademark use. R. 
Housley, as CCG co-chair, confirmed that he does not expect PTI to send 
reports to the CCG.
 
Customer Service Survey
Customer service satisfaction survey will be available in December. One 
conclusion was that people want to see versions of registries. This was 
requested through the IESG when contact information issues were under
discussion. Possible improvements are being discussed.
 
Some issues with the delivery of the survey were identified. Users with 
more than one role replied to only one survey; surveys were erroneously 
sent to group addresses, including working group addresses; not all 
queried feel motivated to answer. Only four responses from the IESG.
 
Discussion about sending immediate post-ticket surveys as well as annual 
surveys has begun.
 
8.  2017 SLA – Any changes?
 
Action Item: Precedent language will be removed now that the transition 
is complete. Annual review dates may change.  IESG has confirmed that 
they want to keep the new expiring early allocation report, so that will 
be left in the SLA as a permanent deliverable. No changes likely this 
year.
 
9.  Process for Inactive Requests
 
A process for handling requests that can't be moved out of OFAC check 
was established in Berlin. The inactive ticket is moved to a separate 
queue and re-checked quarterly.
 
Action Item: M. Cotton will send documentation of the process to the 
group.
 
10.  Report format for statistics on OFAC Review of Protocol Parameter 
Requests
 
The IAB will receive a report documenting inactive requests dating back 
seven years. This is not a public report.
 
11.  Timezone database updates
 
Kim Davies is working with the Time Zone Coordinator to change how the 
database gets updated, using Github. In the future, there will be 
automatic deployment and then a backup. The Coordinator will be asked to 
communicate enhancements to the Time Zone Mailing List before and after 
they're completed.  We will continue to monitor the progress.
 
12.  Expert Reviews
 
Port review time has improved. Media type review process is continuing 
to be monitored. There is still a learning curve for the newer media 
types expert. The new expert is going to propose having calls every two 
weeks to go through the queue. We will monitor the progress of those 
efforts.
 
We have some other slow experts. Action Item: Will ask IESG for 
replacements. There's progress on CORE replacements. There was some 
discussion about if we need to think about changing expectations for 
experts, not treating them like volunteers.  Consensus was we should set 
expectations when experts are assigned, but they are still volunteers 
and those that are having issues should be monitored on a case by case 
basis. There was a suggestion to record how many times an expert must be 
pinged.
 
Action Item: M. Cotton will consider what is involved in tracking this 
information as the pinging is not automated.
 
13. Phone Meeting Schedule
Action Item: M. Cotton will send out invitations for future calls.
 
14. Other Business:
 
M. Cotton asked about the formality of the IPROC.  A. Sullivan said the 
group will revert to an informal group as it was years ago.  IPROC page 
on the IETF website will likely be tomb stoned. On request of the IETF/
IAB representatives, M. Cotton will present informal notes to IAB in the 
liaison report.
 
15. Summary of New Action Items
 
Action Item: Area Director to identify a new primary expert for CORE.
Action Item: M. Cotton to clarify dates for annual review.
Action Item: A. Sullivan will send a note to RFC Editor this week about 
the language changes. More discussion
may be needed. Enforcement would have to be undertaken by the Trust.
Action Item: Precedent language will be removed now that the transition 
is complete. 
Action Item: M. Cotton will send documentation of the process to the 
group.
Action Item: M. Cotton will consider what is involved in tracking this 
information as the pinging is not automated.
Action Item: M. Cotton will send out invitations for future calls.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

Format
The IAOC has awarded the format tools to Elf Tools (for work on IDNITS,
Publication Formatter and Text Submission) and SeanTek (for work on
RFClint, svgcheck, and XML Diff). A formal announcement will be sent to
the community in January 2017.

Digital Preservation
The press release by the National Library of Sweden will be released
this month, as will a blog post about the effort from the RFC Series
Editor via the IETF blog. The I-D describing the general goals and
expectations of digital preservation for RFCs,
draft-iab-rfc-preservation, has been submitted to the IAB to start the
approval process for publication as an RFC.

RFC Production Center evaluation
A questionnaire will be distributed this month to the IESG, IAB, IRSG,
and ISE, as well as twelve randomly selected authors who had RFCs
published in 2016 to collect feedback on the performance of the RPC in
2016. The RFC Series Editor will handle the distribution and information
collection, and will draft a report to the RSOC after that information
gathering and review is complete.

RPC update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
Q4 2016: Q4 has been quite busy, as the Format-related documents have
been published, an expedited request for draft-ietf-netmod-routing-cfg
has been completed, and a declaration in response to a legal request has
been completed. Publications have been slow so far in Q4, but quite a
few clustered documents were stuck in AUTH48 and AUTH48-DONE (see Figure
3). Also, note that while the number of publications was low during Q4,
the number of pages published was the highest this year.

For CY2016, 310 documents were published as RFCs. 58% of RFCs were
published within the Tier 1 goal time of 6 weeks or less; 93% of RFCs
were published within the Tier 2 goal time of 12 weeks or less.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. draft-iab-rfc-preservation


Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote asking whether draft-iab-rfc-preservation is ready for community review.


### 4. Stability of the domain namespace


The IAB discussed the recent SSAC Advisory on the Stability of the Domain Namespace <[https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090- en.pdf](https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090-%20en.pdf)>. Suzanne Woolf noted that it is also being discussed on the Names and Identifiers Program list, but that it would be helpful to get more input from people who have knowledge in this space.


Jonne Soininen will let the ICANN Board know that the IAB has read the report and is trying to come up with their views on this.


### 5. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell reported that there was nothing new to report about the IETF 98 Technical Plenary. Brian and Lee Howard will send an update on the plenary plans to the IAB mailing list and report back to the IAB in more detail at the 1 February 2017 business meeting.


### 6. Program Review: RSOC


Robert Sparks updated the IAB on the RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC). Recent and ongoing activities include:


* Evaluation of RSE 2015/2016 performance
* Establish RSE 2016/2017 priorities
* Evaluation of digital signature procedures
* Review/publication of RFC Format document suite
* Review/Oversight of projects
	+ Digital preservation
	+ Statistics and Metrics
	+ Improvements to RFC Infrastructure
* Handle CrossRef DOI display rule changes
* Assist with development of ISE transition plan


Upcoming activities include:


* Participate in the 2017 RSE RFP and selection process
* Assist with transition to new RFC format


The IAB briefly discussed how much time is expected from the RSE role, and whether that is likely to go down once the bulk of the new format work is done. Robert Sparks will go back to RSOC and find out if the time expectations need to be more explicit.


The RSOC membership has not changed since the last time RSOC was reviewed (22 June 2016). The IAB agreed to review that again either at IETF 98 or at the next IAB retreat.


Robert Sparks reported that Crossref, the DOI registrar used by the RFC series, recently changed their display guidelines to require all DOIs to follow the format of https://doi.org/####. This would result in a single point for logging what IP addresses are accessing which documents, and that information potentially provides tracking about individual actions that governments might request via their local legal proceedings.


RSOC is unhappy with that change, and plans to continue to display DOIs unlinked and in the format “DOI ######.” If Crossref eventually demands that the RFC Series follow the new display guidelines, the RSOC proposes that the RFC Series stop using DOIs. This was discussed with the stream managers during IETF 97, and they supported that proposal.


### 7. Executive Session: Project internal mailing lists


The archives of internal project mailing lists were discussed in an executive session.


### 8. Executive Session: IEEE 802-IETF coordination activity


Russ Housley recused himself from the discussion and left the call. The coordination activity between the IETF and IEEE 802 was discussed in an executive session.


### 9. NomCom Slate


Cindy Morgan will send out a Doodle poll for the IAB to choose a time to discuss the IESG slate, once it is received from NomCom.


