
Minutes of the 2017-03-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (incoming IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham (incoming IAB)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura (incoming IAB)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Items on the 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF and the CCG Appointment Process were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 22 February 2017 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. INIP Review


Suzanne Woolf updated the IAB on the activities of the IAB Names and Identifiers Program:


* The Program has discussed draft-lewis-domain-names and draft-stw-whatsinaname.
* The Program provided input to the Alternative Resolution Contexts for Internet Naming (ARCING BOF) at IETF 95 in Buenos Aires.


In addition, there have been some discussions about special use names, handles/digital object architectures, and possible workshop topics, but there have been no clear outcomes from those discussions.


The IAB agreed that it is clear that there is still work to be done in this space, but that the INIP as currently structured may not be the best way to get that work done. After discussion, the IAB agreed to close the INIP. Suzanne Woolf will send a message out to the mailing list explaining this.


Suzanne Woolf and Ted Hardie will brainstorm new ways for the IAB to take on work related to names and identifiers, and make a proposal to the IAB at IETF 98.


### 3. NTIA IOT Paper


The IAB approved the text for their response to the NTIA IOT Paper. Cindy Morgan will send the response and post it on the IAB website.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 98


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 98. Russ Housley suggested that the names and identifiers topic should go on the joint IAB/IESG agenda.


The IAB will need to select their new chair during IETF 98, before the IAOC meeting on Tuesday. Currently, selection of the new IAB Chair is on the agenda for Sunday, but there is a chance that some IAB members may not be present on Sunday afternoon, in which case the decision will be pushed to Monday. Cindy Morgan will update the IAB calendar accordingly.


Andrew Sullivan will start the IAB Chair nominations process on the mailing list.


The IAB agreed to review ICNRG at IETF 98. Cindy Morgan will follow up with the IRSG.


### 5. BOF Coverage at IETF 98


The IAB discussed BOF coverage for IETF 98:


* CASM: Lee Howard and Erik Nordmark will cover the BOF. Ralph Droms is one of the co-chairs.
* WUGH: Ted Hardie, Joe Hildebrand, and Mark Nottingham will cover the BOF. Martin Thomson is an author of one of the sample templates.
* TEEP: Russ Housley and Dave Thaler will cover the BOF.
* IASA20: Russ Housley will cover the BOF.


Several IAB members noted that they had trouble accessing the IAB’s public wiki to sign up for BOF coverage. Cindy Morgan will investigate this further.


### 6. draft-iab-protocol-transitions-06


The IAB discussed open issues on draft-iab-protocol-transitions-06. Lee Howard will review the comments on the IPv6 case study and make a recommendation. Dave Thaler asked that this be put back on the agenda for the next IAB meeting on 8 March 2017.


### 7. draft-iab-rfc-preservation


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-rfc-preservation-04 as an Informational document on the IAB Stream. Cindy Morgan will forward the document to the RFC Editor.


### 8. 2017 Retreat


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to hold their 2017 retreat 15-17 May in Montreal, with a joint meeting with the IESG on 17 May. Cindy Morgan will work with AMS to find out if the meeting room can be available earlier in the morning and/or later in the evening to help accommodate remote participation for Mark Nottingham in Australia.


### 9. 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF


Russ Housley forwarded the draft 2017 SLA between ICANN and IETF to the IAB. The IAB will review the SLA and vote on approving it at the next IAB meeting on 8 March 2017.


### 10. CCG Appointment Process


Ted Hardie, Russ Housley, and Cindy Morgan will get together and come up with a proposal to kick off the CCG appointment process. Cindy Morgan will set up a page for this in the internal IAB wiki.


### 11. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB selected their candidate for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment. Suresh Krishnan will forward that to the IESG for confirmation.


