
Minutes of the 2017-04-26 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Several new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 8 March 2017 Business Meeting
* 15 March 2017 Business Meeting
* 26 March 2017 Business Meeting
* 29 March 2017 Business Meeting
* 30 March 2017 Business Meeting


The minutes of the 12 April 2017 Business Meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Allison Mankin reported that the Plenary Planning Program has agreed upon a topic and secured one speaker for IETF 99. Allison has an action item to follow up on leads for a second potential speaker.


### 3. Unicode 9 and 10, UTS#39, and IDNA and SMTPUTF8/EAI


Ted Hardie agreed to draft text for a liaison statement to the Unicode Consortium regarding Unicode 9 and 10, UTS#39, and IDNA and SMTPUTF8/EAI. Ted Hardie and Mark Nottingham will put together a proposal for a topic on the IETF/Unicode relationship from the browser perspective for discussion at the IAB retreat.


### 4. IAB Comments on Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) Implementation Guidelines


The IAB approved a response to the ICANN call for public comments on Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) Implementation Guidelines. Suzanne Woolf will send the comments to ICANN on behalf of the IAB.


### 5. 2017 Retreat


IAB members who proposed topics for the IAB retreat will write up a brief description of their topic to help scope the discussions before the next IAB business meeting. Once the descriptions are in, a small team will put together the agenda for the retreat.


Joe Hildebrand and Martin Thomson agreed to work with Alia Atlas to provide context and scope for a discussion on open source work to be held during the joint day with the IESG.


### 6. MSP Standardization liaison relationship


Gabriel Montenegro agreed to be the liaison shepherd for the Multi Stake Holder Platform on ICT Standardization. Cindy Morgan will update the website accordingly.


### 7. Maintaining Internet Namespace Coherence Workshop Proposal


Ted Hardie agreed to provide an updated proposal for an IAB workshop on Maintaining Internet Namespace Coherence before the next IAB business meeting.


Ted Hardie asked IAB members who may be thinking about other potential IAB workshops to send early drafts of their proposals to the IAB as soon as possible so that there is enough time to plan them.


### 8. IANA Program Leadership


Jari Arkko will take over as IAB Lead for the IANA Program. Suzanne Woolf will take over as IAB Shepherd for the liaison relationship with the ICANN Board of Directors. Cindy Morgan will update the website accordingly.


### 9. ISE Selection Process


Lee Howard, Brian Trammell, and Suzanne Woolf agreed to join Robert Sparks on the search committee for the next Independent Submissions Editor. Robert will draft text for a message announcing the search committee and send it to the IAB for review.


### 10. CCG Candidates


Cindy Morgan will send a reminder about the call for nominations for the Community Coordination Group. IAB members were asked to talk to potential candidates and solicit more nominations.


### 11. Update on WSIS Forum


The IAB agreed to send someone to speak about IETF at the workshop being organized by Article 19 at the upcoming WSIS Forum. Ted Hardie and Brian Trammell will coordinate offline.


### 12. Executive Session: IAOC Retreat Update


In an executive session, Ted Hardie provided the IAB on an update from the IAOC retreat.


