
Minutes of the 2017-03-26 IAB Business Meeting, Chicago
-------------------------------------------------------


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Ralph Droms
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan
* Jeff Tantsura
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell (remote)
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)


### 1. Executive Session: IAB Chair Selection


In an executive session, the IAB selected Ted Hardie as the IAB Chair for 2017-2018.


The IAB thanked Andrew Sullivan for his service as IAB Chair from 2015-2017.


### 2. Program Leadership


The IAB discussed the leadership of various IAB Programs.


A new IAB lead for the IANA Program will be chosen by the end of the week.


Ted Hardie will remain the IAB Lead for the Internationalization Program as the Program winds down.


Joe Hildebrand will take over as IAB Lead of the Liaison Oversight Program.


Martin Thomson will take over as IAB Lead for the Privacy and Security Program. Gabriel Montenegro and Mark Nottingham will be added to the Program; Alissa Cooper will be removed from the Program.


### 3. Liaison Shepherds


The IAB reviewed the IAB shepherds for the various IETF liaison relationships, and made the following changes:


* Jari Arkko will be the liaison shepherd for ICANN Board of Directors.
* Ted Hardie will be the liaison shepherd for ICANN RSSAC.
* Erik Nordmark will be the liaison shepherd for IEEE 802.1.
* Erik Nordmark will be the liaison shepherd for IEEE-SA.
* Ted Hardie will be the interim liaison shepherd for ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2.
* Robert Sparks will be liaison shepherd for ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6
* Allison Mankin will be invited to be the liaison shepherd for ISO/TC46.
* Gabriel Montenegro will be the liaison shepherd for ISO/TC204.
* Mark Nottingham will be the liaison shepherd for ITU-T.
* Jeff Tantsura will be the liaison shepherd for ITU-T, SG15.
* Ted Hardie will be the interim liaison shepherd for Unicode.
* Further transition on the WIPO liaison shepherd is expected by the end of this week. Ralph Droms will follow up with Patrik Faltstrom, the liaison manager.


### 4. Internal Liaisons


Suzanne Woolf will be the IAB’s liaison to the IESG.


Robert Sparks will be the IAB’s liaison to the 2017-2018 NomCom.


### 5. Executive Session: RSOC Membership


In an executive session, the IAB discussed the membership of the RSOC. Robert Sparks asked the IAB to give the topic more thought before the IAB retreat.


### 6. IAB Teleconference Times


The IAB tentatively agreed to change their conference call time to 2000 UTC. Ted Hardie will follow up with the IAB members who were not in the room for this discussion.


The IAB briefly discussed other changes to their teleconference model, such as shorter running times, changing the frequency of calls, or handling tech chats differently. Cindy Morgan will look up the running times for recent meetings and report back to the IAB. The discussions will continue on email and at the IAB retreat.


### 7. Record e-vote on draft-iab-protocol-transitions-08


The outgoing IAB approved draft-iab-protocol-transitions-08 via e-vote prior to the start of IETF 98. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC Editor.


