
Minutes of the 2017-06-07 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell


##### Guest:


* Peter Yee, NomCom Chair


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on an IAB Shepherd for the NETSLICING BOF was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 May 2017 and 24 May 2017 business meetings remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program has an open Doodle poll to select a time for a Program meeting.


Lee Howard asked the IAB whether 5G might be an appropriate plenary topic. After discussion, the IAB agreed that 5G might be more appropriate for a lunchtime session. Alissa Cooper agreed to ask around at the 3GPP meeting to find out if there is interest. Jari Arkko agreed to help.


### 3. Liaison Manager for Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation


Via e-vote, the IAB approved replacing Olaf Kolkman with Mat Ford as one of the liaison managers for the relationship with the Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation. Cindy Morgan will update the relevant web pages accordingly.


### 4. Liaison to ETSI on mcTLS


The IAB briefly discussed whether to send a liaison statement to ETSI regarding mcTLS. Suzanne Woolf will raise the issue at the next IESG meeting. The discussion will continue at the next IAB meeting.


### 5. draft-iab-iotsu-workshop


Ted Hardie will start an e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-iotsu-workshop for publication on the IAB stream.


### 6. Report from ISOC Board of Trustees Meeting


Ted Hardie reported that the ISOC Board of Trustees expressed an interest in seeing a summary of the reports that the IAB receives from various liaisons. The IAB had no objection to this. Ted Hardie will work with Cindy Morgan to draft a sample report for the IAB to review.


### 7. BOF shepherd for NETSLICING


Ted Hardie asked the IAB for a volunteer to shepherd the Network Slicing BOF; the conversation will continue over email.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN RZERC Appointment


Ted Hardie will start an e-vote on the the IAB appointment to the ICANN RZERC.


### 9. Executive Session: Community Coordination Group (CCG) Appointment


Ted Hardie will start an e-vote on the the IAB appointments to the CCG.


