
Minutes of the 2017-08-02 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 June 2017, 28 June 2017, 05 July 2017, 16 July 2017, 17 July 2017, and 20 July 2017 business meetings remain under review. Ted Hardie will start an e-vote to approve the back log.


#### 1.4 Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell requested that Ted Hardie reach out to Vint Cerf to talk to him about being a part of a panel for the technical plenary for IETF 100.


### 3. FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN


The IAB approved text for a comment to the FCC NOI (17-89) via an e-vote. The comment was submitted to the FCC, and the comment was posted to the IAB Web site.


### 4. IRTF Open Access Journal


Robert Sparks requested this item come back for discussion when Allison Mankin is present.


### 5. RSOC community updates on Feedback SOW


Robert Sparks reported that the feedback period on the RFC Series Editor statement of work closed and that Ray Pelletier and Sarah Banks are working on issuing the RFP.


### 6. NETSLICING Primer


Jeff Tantsura reported on the background on Network Slicing. Jari Arkko and Jeff put together a presentation on slicing, what it is and what it is not, and some of the confusion around the definition of slicing. Jeff mentioned plenty of work was being done in the IETF, especially in the TEAS WG, SFC WG, and OPS Area.


Ted Hardie mentioned that in a conversation with Jari they were still defining what slicing is. He requested an additional person to assist Jari and Jeff in preparing a Netslicing Primer.


Gabriel Montenegro volunteered to assist.


### 7. Executive Session: ISE Selection


The ISE selection was discussed in an executive session.


