
Minutes of the 2017-06-14 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Mark Nottingham
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Martin Thomson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 May 2017 and the 24 May 2017 business meetings were approved. The minutes of the 7 June 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
12 June 2017

Topics:

  I. Current and upcoming policy papers and/or surveys out for comment
 II. Upcoming submissions and applications
III. Engagements
 IV. Highlights of recent activities

I. Current and upcoming policy papers and/or surveys out for comment

- Ensuring Sustainable Connectivity in Small Island Developing States 
(SIDS)  (Estimated launch: 15 June)
Accompanied by six case studies, the report analyzes connectivity 
challenges of Small Island Development States, a distinct group of 
developing countries characterized by vulnerabilities as a result of 
small populations, remoteness, limited export base, higher exposure to 
global economic disruptions, and frequent natural disasters.

- Asia-Pacific Issue Papers 
The ISOC APAC Bureau will publish 4 issue papers this month, on the 
topics of Gender, Online Privacy, Enabling Policy Environment and 
Digital Accessibility.

- Survey: Help shape the future Internet (Deadline 8 June) 
In September, we will launch a comprehensive report that details the 
forces that could impact the Internet. We want to hear your 
recommendations for Internet leaders and policy makers to ensure the 
development of an open, trusted, accessible, and global Internet in the 
future. Background information that supported the launch of the survey 
is available here: https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/chapters-
members-public-policy/2017/05/help-shape-future-internet Please complete 
the survey by June 8: https://internetsociety2.wufoo.com/forms/
internets-future-survey/

II. Upcoming submissions and applications

- Internet Society Fellowship to WTDC-17 (Deadline June 30)
ISOC is accepting applications for its Fellowship Programme to the ITU 
World Telecommunication Development Conference (WTDC-17), 9-20 October 
2017 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Fellowship Programme is open to 
ISOC Members. The application period is June 1-30. More details are 
available here: https://www.internetsociety.org/un/nomination-
fellowship-wtdc-17

III. Engagements (conferences, national IGFs, etc.) 

- 3rd APT Preparatory Meeting for WTDC-17 (5-7 June, Bangkok, Thailand)  
The APAC Bureau will participate and contribute to the 3rd APT Prep 
Meeting as it seeks to solidify common proposals for the Asia-Pacific 
region.

- Next Generation Internet Summit (6-7 June, Brussels, Belgium)
The Next Generation Internet Summit and its related public campaign is 
aimed to support the European Commission to build a strategy for 
Europe's digital future. ISOC's CEO Kathy Brown has been invited to 
speak in the opening session and will present some of the findings from 
ISOC's own project on Internet Futures, which will be released in early 
September.  More information is available: http://www.ngi-summit.org/concept/

- EuroDIG (6-7 June, Tallinn, Estonia)
The European Dialogue on Internet Governance (EuroDIG) is an open multi-
stakeholder platform to exchange views about the Internet and how it is 
governed. ISOC staff will participate in numerous sessions. Sally 
Wentworth, ISOC's VP of Global Policy Development, will also participate 
in the first plenary session on cybersecurity: https://www.eurodig.org/
index.php?id=74

- OECD Forum (6-7 June, Paris, France)
The OECD Forum is an annual event where policy leaders discuss policy 
issues concerning ICTs and Innovation. Constance Bommelaer has been 
invited to participate and discuss the impact of Artificial Intelligence 
on work and privacy. Further details: http://www.oecd.org/forum/about/
ideafactory.htm

- IGF Perú (6-7 June, Lima, Peru) 
Co-organized by the Peruvian chapter, IGF Peru proposes a space for 
dialogue on Internet Governance in which different stakeholders can 
discuss the use and development of the Internet in the country: https://
drive.google.com/file/d/0B4Zy0uU5RvKEMU1HZWlIUHdjX3M/view

- IGF 2017 Second Open Consultations & MAG Meeting (12-14 June, Geneva, 
Switzerland)
The second Open Consultations and Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG) 
meeting of the IGF 2017 preparatory cycle will take place from 12-14 
June at the headquarters of the International Telecommunication Union 
(ITU), in Geneva, Switzerland. Registrations for participation onsite or 
online are open: http://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/content/
igf-2017-second-open-consultations-mag-meeting

- WSIS Forum (12-16 June, Geneva, Switzerland)
Several stakeholders will meet in Geneva at the World Summit on the 
Information Society Forum. The objective of the meeting will be to 
understand the role that ICTs should play in the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals. Find out more here: https://www.itu.int/
net4/wsis/forum/2017/

- ISOC Community Forum (15 June, 13:00-14:30 UTC)
As a follow-up to the discussion started on May 11th at Chatham House, 
the Internet Society will host a Community Forum for its members to 
address key questions around whether the Internet of the future will be 
a force that brings people together or divides us. Emily Taylor, Ismail 
Syed Shah, Rebecca MacKinnon and Sally Wentworth will participate on the 
panel. Join the discussion online: https://www.internetsociety.org/25th/
community-forum-15-june-2017

- Latin American Congress of Telecommunications (20-23 June, Cartagena, 
Colombia)
The meeting will bring together key executives, academics, international 
organizations, ministers and regulators of the digital ecosystem in 
Cartagena, Colombia. The central themes will be the development of the 
digital economy and the industrial Internet in Latin America, as well as 
the regulatory modernization of the digital ecosystem and its 
contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. More info at: http://
www.clt2017.org/eng/

- IGF Barbados (22-23 June)
Organized by the Barbados Chapter, IGF Barbados will be the first 
preparatory meeting for IGF 2017. The event will include discussion of 
10 papers and there will be 10 workshops during the two days. The agenda 
and other details are available here: http://www.igf.bb/website/

- Mobile World Congress 2017 (28 June - 1 July, Shanghai, China)  
ISOC's CEO Kathy Brown and members of the APAC team will participate in 
this year's MWC Shanghai organized by the GSMA: https://
www.mwcshanghai.com/ .

IV. Highlights of recent activities 

- Community Networks - Africa - 2nd African Community Network Summit 
(25-25 May) 
Community network experts and experts from around Africa met to hold the 
2nd African Community Network Summit to discuss technical, 
environmental, sustainability, and other issues related to developing 
and maintaining community networks. 

- Report: "Supporting the Creation and Scalability of Affordable Access 
Solutions:  Understanding Community Networks in Africa".  
This is the first report of its kind to focus on the challenges that 
community networks face in Africa: https://www.internetsociety.org/doc/
cnafrica
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Label Generation Rules for the Root Zone Version 2 (RZ-LGR-2) 
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/rz-lgr-2-2017-06-06-en)
End: 24 July 2017

II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

Ongoing activities: 

SSAC095: SSAC Advisory on the Use of Emoji in Domain Names
-----------------
The ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee has given guidance 
on use of emoji both in the root zone and in general discouraging the 
use of them.

Strategic:

Cooperation with ICANN
------------

ICANN-IETF cooperation has traditionally relied in active individuals 
who happen to be active in the both organizations due to their own 
interest. There has been positive development in individuals even 
working for the ICANN organization have become more active in the IETF. 
However, there may be more need in the future for also in deepening the 
participation and cooperation in the other direction. There clearly are 
topics that are of mutual interest including special-use names and 
activities like HOMENET. 

Perhaps over time, IAB should think about how to make sure the IETF 
presence in the ICANN processes either by more efficient use of the 
current liaisons to the ICANN organizations and/or what can be done to 
ensure the continued participation of interested individuals. There is 
no emergency in this space, but I think it might be advisable for the 
IAB to keep this in mind. 


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN meeting, June 22nd-29th, 2017, Johannesburg, South Africa
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 14 June 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the April 2017
monthly statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of 
processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has 
control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors 
or other experts.
  
  
Other News:
 
- There has been a call for volunteers as Trusted Community 
Representatives https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2017-05-18-en
 
- ICANN plans to post the job description for the VP IANA Services/PTI 
President in mid-June 2017 and begin recruiting to fill the position
 
- Michelle Cotton met with the IETF Leadership to gather ideas for input 
on potential work items to include in the FY19 budget.  

Meeting minutes are reported below.
 
- ICANN will be adopting the FY18 ICANN budget, and this contains the 
PTI FY18 budget.  The FY18 budget was approved by the PTI Board which 
was the first step, the PTI Board submitted it to ICANN for its 
inclusion in the ICANN budget, and formal funding of the FY18 PTI budget 
will happen when ICANN’s board approves the ICANN Fy18 budget.
 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
DRAFT MEETING MINUTES - BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Monday, May 22, 2017
Phone meeting
1500 UTC 
 
Attendees:
Alissa Cooper, IETF chair
Michelle Cotton, PTI Protocol Parameters Engagement Manager
Ted Hardie, IAB chair
Russ Housley, IAB IANA Program
Ray Pelletier, IAD
Jonne Soininen, IAB liaison to ICANN Board
Suzanne Woolf, IAB IANA Program
 
 
1. Review of Monthly Report
 
R. Housley indicated the additional information in the message with the 
monthly report continues to be very helpful. +1 from S. Woolf.  M. 
Cotton will continue to anticipate what questions might come up and 
provide additional information along with the report.

There were no other questions.
 
 
2.  Input to IANA Services for FY19 Budget
 
A. Cooper asked what the dates of the fiscal year were and what the 
timing of the planning was.  M. Cotton indicated the fiscal year is July 
1 – June 30.  The PTI budget has to be completed approximately 9 months 
ahead of the beginning of the ICANN budget cycle.  
 
Action Item: M. Cotton will send exact details of budgeting timeline to 
the group.
 
Ideas for improvements:
 
A. Cooper suggested the ability to do automated registrations.
 
R. Housley suggested making available an auto/pre-check for 
registrations that will be included in the RFC.  Example yang module 
automated check (Henrik has details) Checking to make sure the authors 
have included everything that is needed for the registrations they are 
requesting in the document.
 
M. Cotton: Something that is similar that has been discussed internally 
registry tool to help authors create registries and determine what type 
of registry they want.  This would allow them to see what the registries 
will look like.  Potentially providing authors with text to put in their 
document.
 
T.Hardie:  Being able to match the registry creation tool with automatic 
registrations would be good.
 
R. Housley: Similar to how Doodle gives the user choices, a registry 
creating tool could do the same.
 
M. Cotton:  Reminder, if there are any additional ideas that you have, 
please email them to Michelle.
 
3. Summary of Action Items
 
M. Cotton:  Send exact timing for budgeting cycle to group 
 
DRAFT MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

- Format
The first tool of the new format tool suite, id2xml, is being tested by
the RPC and various members of the Tools Development list. This tool
converts plain text Internet Drafts to XML files. More information on
the timeline for the various format tools is available on the wiki:

https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan

In addition to testing tools, the RPC is also working on evaluating how
existing editorial workflow and tools handle non-ASCII characters. The
httpbis working group has put forward one of their drafts,
draft-ietf-httpsbix-rfc5987bis, for testing.

We will be scheduling an update on the format tools at the IETF 99 WG
Chairs lunch.

- Digital Preservation
The RFC Series Editor has started initial conversations with the
Computer History Museum around archiving digital copies of RFCs. We are
currently working on an MoU; once the initial draft is done, it will be
reviewed by the RSOC and the IETF Trust before further action is taken.


RPC Update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Tool testing related to the xml2rfc v3 format has begun. The RPC is
actively testing and providing feedback regarding id2xml. In addition,
the RPC is evaluating how the existing tools handle UTF-8 characters.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program has scheduled a conference call for 20 June 2017.


### 4. IP Stack Evolution Program Review


Brian Trammell updated the IAB on the recent activities of the IP Stack Evolution Program. Since March 2016, the Program has:


* Published RFC 8170, “Planning for Protocol Adoption and Subsequent Transitions.”
* Participated in the PLUS BOF at IETF 96.
* Participated in the QUIC WG.


Brian Trammell presented proposed text for an updated Program description. Erik Nordmark suggested that something should be added to address the MaRNEW work. Brian will update the text accordingly.


Brian Trammell took an action to find a new editor for the MaRNEW workshop report. Erik Nordmark will draft text for a document describing the next steps on MaRNEW.


The IAB discussed the current membership of the IP Stack Evolution Program. Brian Trammell will follow up with the current members of the Program who have not been active.


### 5. Liaison to ETSI on mcTLS


At the IESG meeting on 8 June 2017, Kathleen Moriarty and Eric Rescorla took an action to draft a response to ETSI on mcTLS and circulate it to the IESG and IAB for review.


### 6. draft-iab-iotsu-workshop


The IAB approved the publication of draft-iab-iotsu-workshop as an  

Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will forward the  

document to the RFC Editor.


### 7. 3GPP Lunch Meeting in Prague


Alissa Cooper will reach out to people from 3GPP to find someone who could lead a discussion about the 3GPP’s work on 5G at IETF 99. Alissa will copy Ted Hardie on the discussions.


### 8. Internet Consolidation


Jari Arkko suggested that the IAB might want to pay attention to trends around Internet consolidation. Brian Trammell noted that many of the moves towards consolidation are driven by economic factors rather than technical factors, but that it may be worth studying to see if there are any assumptions about the architecture of the Internet that no longer hold true.


Ted Hardie suggested that Jari Arkko write up a description of what information he is looking for and send it to the different IAB Programs, noting that different Programs would likely give different answers.


### 9. WSIS Forum Panel Report


Brian Trammell reported that he was on a panel on “Rights, Governance, Protocols, and Standards” at the recent WSIS Forum. The panel was moderated by Niels ten Oever, ARTICLE 19. Other panelists included Theresa Swinehart, ICANN; Nicolas Seidler, Internet Society; and Bilel Jamoussi, ITU-T.


### 10. RZERC Appointment


The IAB agreed to reappoint Jim Reid to the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC). Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will send out an announcement.


### 11. CCG Appointment


The IAB agreed to make the following appointments to the Community Coordination Group (CCG):


* Russ Housley (2-year term)
* Barry Leiba (2-year term)
* Andrew Sullivan (1-year term)


Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will send out an announcement.


