
Minutes of the 2017-05-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 3 May 2017 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was approved.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
9 May 2017

Topics:

  I. African Regional Internet Development Dialogue
 II. New Report on Internet & Education in Africa
III. A Case Study in Local Content Hosting: Speed, Visits, and Cost of Access
 IV. CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation
  V. World Press Freedom Day
 VI. Policy Paper on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
VII. Peering & Interconnection Updates
VIII. Community Networks

I. African Regional Internet Development Dialogue (RIDD) (8-9 May, 
Kigali, Rwanda)  
ISOC will host the 3rd RIDD in partnership with Rwanda's ICT and Youth 
Ministry "Enhancing Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Education in Africa 
through the Internet". Following the RIDD, a one day African chapters 
workshop will take place in Kigali on May 10 to discuss advocacy around 
the two thematic areas of the RIDD: the Internet economy, and education.

II. New Report on Internet & Education in Africa
At the RIDD taking place in Kigali, Rwanda, the ISOC presented the 
results of a study entitled “Internet for Education in Africa – Helping 
Policymakers to Meet the Global Education Goals". This new report [1] 
assesses how the Internet is used in the education sector in Africa. It 
also looks at the untapped opportunities by examining experiences in 
other regions, and provides recommendations for policymakers to help 
encourage learning via the Internet.

III. A Case Study in Local Content Hosting: Speed, Visits, and Cost of 
Access
ISOC and Rwandan experts have finalized a paper [2] on the importance of 
hosting local content. After a 2015 study [3] highlighted the issue of 
cost of hosting local websites abroad, the Ministry of Youth and ICT in 
Rwanda decided to conduct a pilot study to repatriate a selection of 
Rwandan websites back to Rwanda. The pilot project was conducted by the 
Rwanda ICT Association with assistance from the Internet Society. 

IV. CSTD Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation
The group's third meeting continued the review of the input received 
from all stakeholders to two guiding questions formulated by the group 
during its first meeting in September. More information about the 
meeting, including the contributions, please visit the CSTD website [4].

V. World Press Freedom Day
ISOC called [5] on governments to support encryption rather than seeing 
it as a threat, and on all journalists to use encryption to protect 
their research, their communications, their sources, and themselves [6]. 
ISOC joined with other stakeholders in drafting the WPFD declaration 
[7].

VI. Policy Paper on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
The Internet Society has published a white paper [8] on Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning, providing an introduction to the 
opportunities and challenges the technology presents and its impact on 
the future of Internet trust.

VII. Peering & Interconnection Updates
Beirut: An IXP global best practices and technical training workshop was 
held 23-24 March in Beirut to bring the local peering and IX community 
together. This is a time of change in Lebanon with the incumbent, Ojero, 
working closely with other partners to facilitate a stronger peering 
environment. 50 experts were trained over the 2-day workshop by partners 
from Euro-IX, RIPE NCC, INEX, and ISOC.

Cameroon: Using local trainers, ISOC coordinated an IXP Technical 
Training workshop in Yaounde, Cameroon with the local chapter and CAMIX. 
The workshop focused on BGP training for 22 local experts to improve 
local technical capacity and improve the peering environment in 
Cameroon.

Ghana: ISOC conducted a peering roadshow in Ghana with the local IX and 
35 local experts to discuss advanced various peering-related topics and 
the RIPE Atlas Anchor project among RIPE NCC, ISOC, and AfriNIC. The 
latter project will deploy Atlas anchors in 10 African countries in 
2017.

Save the Date: African Peering and Interconnection Forum (AfPIF) 2017 
(22-24 August, Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire) This annual event brings local, 
regional, and international peering and interconnection experts, 
operators, and experts together for the premier peering and 
interconnection event in Africa [9]. 

VIII. Community Networks
ISOC has been working with a range of Community Networks (CNs) around 
the world. Support has ranged from fellowships, CN-to-CN exchange, 
support for open-source router and mesh network development, and direct 
support to networks in South Africa (SoWUG, Zenzeleni) for basic network 
support.

--

[1] https://www.internetsociety.org/news/connected-learning-key-improving-
education-africa-says-internet-society-study
[2] https://www.internetsociety.org/doc/case-study-local-content-rwanda
[3] https://www.internetsociety.org/sites/default/files/Promoting Local 
Content Hosting to Develop the Internet Ecosystem.pdf
[4] http://unctad.org/en/Pages/CSTD/WGEC-2016-to-2018.aspx
[5] https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/public-policy/2017/05/join-us-
world-press-freedom-day-week
[6] http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-future-of-the-free-press-is-
at-risk-encryption_us_5909451ce4b084f59b49fe04
[7] http://en.unesco.org/world-press-freedom-day-2017/jakarta-
declaration 
[8] https://www.internetsociety.org/doc/artificial-intelligence-and-
machine-learning-policy-paper
[9] https://www.internetsociety.org/afpif/2017/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


Alissa Cooper noted that there are often papers posted on the OMAC list that have a technical component that may intersect with IETF work, and asked if it would be useful to get the IAB’s input on such papers when they are still in draft form. Mat Ford said that he could flag any such items and send them to the IAB, outside of the regular monthly report.


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

Special-Use names
-----------------
The DNSOP Special-Use Names authors are organising a conference call to 
solicit comments from the ICANN community during the IETF Last-Call. The 
conference call agenda will have a presentation on the overview of the 
IETF process concentrating on the last-call and an overview presentation 
of the problem statement document. The planned date is May 23rd. There 
is good support from the ICANN organization for this call and it is a 
first call like this ever organised.

IDN variants
------------

ICANN board had a retreat between May 4-6th 2017. The ICANN board IDN 
working group had a half a day workshop on IDN variants. The main 
purpose for the board IDN WG was to understand the problem space better 
in preparation to see what could be done in the IDN variant space on the 
root level. The IDN variant problem statement was also presented to the 
full board during the workshop. This was the first time that some of the 
board members had exposure to the issue whereas some of the board 
members are already familiar with the issue.

III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN meeting, June 22nd-29th, 2017, Johannesburg, South Africa
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 10 May 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the March 2017
  monthly statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of 
  processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has 
  control over and not time it is waiting on requesters,
  document authors or other experts.
  
Other News:
 
- ICANN successfully completed root zone key signing ceremony on April 
  27, 2017, and this is another step in the preparation of the first
  rollover of the root zone KSK which is scheduled to take place on 
  October 11, 2017.  The script from the ceremony can be found here: 
  https://data.iana.org/ksk-ceremony/29/KC29_Script_Annotated.pdf
 
- ICANN hired a Director of Security for the IANA Functions (LV McCoy), 
  and his first day was April 3, 2017.
 
- ICANN is revising the format of its annual Customer Satisfaction 
  Survey.  The goal is for the survey to focus on the general engagement 
  between ICANN and the IETF/RIRs/TLDs, and less on individual tickets/
  requests.  We are exploring a post-ticket survey approach to collect 
  real-time responses for the performance of ticket handling.
 
- ICANN will be issuing a RFP to select the third-party auditor for the 
  two audits – SOC2 and SOC3.  PwC has been doing a very good job, and 
  it is not for any fault of theirs that we will be issuing a RFP.  They 
  have been the third-party auditor for seven (7) years, and it is 
  prudent to review our audit options and get the benefit of possibly 
  new perspectives.
 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
MEETING MINUTES - BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Monday, March 27, 2017
Lunch Meeting at IETF-98, Chicago
1030 UTC 
 
Attendees:
Jari Arkko, Outgoing IETF chair – Incoming IAB
Alissa Cooper, Incoming IETF chair
Michelle Cotton, PTI Protocol Parameters Engagement Manager
Elise Gerich, PTI President
Marilia Hirano, PTI Manager, Continuous Improvement
Russ Housley, IAB IANA Program
Ray Pelletier, IAD
Andrew Sullivan, Outgoing IAB chair
Jonne Soininen, IAB liaison to ICANN Board
Sabrina Tanamal, PTI IANA Services Specialist
Suzanne Woolf, IAB IANA Program
 
Regrets: Ted Hardie, Incoming IAB Chair (will attend in the future)
 
 
1.  Introductions and Welcome
 
Confirmed change of attendees. We welcomed Marilia and Alissa.  Gave a 
quick introduction to the purpose of the informal meetings and 
background of this group.
 
2.  Review of Action Items
 
Completed: Request for more core-parameters experts. Alexey Melnikov 
successfully got replacement/additional experts approved.
 
Completed: Annual Review of Protocol Parameters Function (audit). Report 
has been sent to the leadership.
 
In Progress: M. Cotton will send documentation for the Inactive Request 
process to the group.
 
In Progress: Finalizing the Inactive Request Process and gathering 
information for internal report of existing inactive requests.
 
Removed:  Some thought was given to how to track the amount of times 
that experts are reminded about responding to requests.  Gathering the 
information would be a manual process as separating the data for who is 
pinged and when is not automated.   With the focus on improving media 
type response times, we will revisit this topic as necessary.  IANA 
Services staff will more carefully bring to the attention of Area 
Directors when experts are not responding.
 
Completed: IPROC page/reporting meeting minutes. M. Cotton now reports 
official minutes as part of the IANA Services Report. The IPROC page has 
been updated to indicate that the group has concluded.
 
3. IANA Services Activity
 
Processed more than 1397 IETF-related requests during November 2016-
February 2017. This includes: Document reviews, registry creations, new 
registrations, modifications to existing registrations, and deletions.
 
Added 6 new stand-alone registries since IETF-97 (November 2016-February 
2017)
  
4.  Update on Deliverables and Projects
 
SLA Deliverables: 
Average cumulative percentage for September 2016 through February 2017 
was 99%.
 
Annual Review of Protocol Parameters Function was completed.  The report 
was circulated to the IETF Leadership group.  There were no exceptions 
found relating to the delivery of the protocol parameters function.  
There were no follow-up questions from the group.  R. Housley prepared a 
statement similar to those from previous years for posting on the IAOC 
webpage.
 
Action item: M. Cotton will resend the draft statement to the group for 
review.  R. Pelletier will arrange for review/approval/posting.
 
Revised 2017 SLA was circulated among IETF Leadership.  Current status 
is that the IAOC will review and hopefully approve this week.
 
Registry workflow multi-year project.  ICANN/PTI is currently in the 
initial stages of data modeling/database design for this project.  We 
are collecting all the wants and needs from IANA Specialists of how to 
more efficiently do our work while improving the user experience.  We 
are also looking forward to how we can improve communications and 
workflow between our partners.

In our planning, we are preparing to hold small focused meetings with 
segmented groups in Prague or Singapore to gather more information about 
user experience and potential improvements.  User groups could include:
o   Experts
o   Area Directors
o   General Users
 
IANA Language in Documentation
RFC5226bis is in the RFC Editor’s queue.
-         ICANN/PTI legal and IETF legal still discussing proper use
 
Action item: R. Pelletier will add an agenda item to IETF Trust’s agenda 
to discuss the IANA language
 
5.  Informal Meeting Schedule
 
Proposed meeting schedule
In person March 27, 2017 (Chicago) This meeting
Phone May 22, 2017
In person July 17, 2017 (Prague)
Phone September 25, 2017
In person November 13, 2017 (Singapore)
 
Action Item: M. Cotton will add new members to the mailing list and send 
out invitations for future meetings/calls
 
 
6.  Other Business
 
Discussed the preparation of the 2018 SLA. 
 
Action item: M. Cotton to ping the group about the potential changes to 
the SLA before Singapore.
 
7. Summary of Action Items
 
In Progress
Action Item: M. Cotton will send documentation for the Inactive Request 
process to the group.
Action Item: M. Cotton will send the report for number of requests in 
the Inactive Queue.
 
New
Action Item: M. Cotton will add new members to the mailing list and send 
out invitations for future meetings/calls
Action item: M. Cotton will resend the draft statement to the group for 
review.
Action item: R. Pelletier will arrange for review/approval/posting of 
statement regarding audit review.
Action item: R. Pelletier will add an agenda item to IETF Trust’s agenda 
to discuss the IANA language
Action item: M. Cotton to ping the group about the potential changes to 
the SLA before Singapore.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

- Format
Tools development is progressing, and some pieces (such as the TXT to
XML converter) should be ready to test before IETF 99.

https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan

- IESG Retreat
The upcoming IESG retreat will include a topic on how to normatively
reference open source materials in a standards document. Given the goals
of availability, stability, and that the reference be to a
specification, and the desire to work more smoothly with the open source
community, further clarification of the current rules regarding
normative references may be required.


RPC Update
- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/


- RFCs and Non-ASCII Characters
The RPC in the process of testing non-ASCII characters through the
existing processing environment. Early tests show changes will need to
be made in either the command shell profile or the system libraries to
support non-ASCII characters. Further research is underway to identify
the exact issue and resolve it before the RPC starts testing against the
v3 format tools.


- Errata URL
In response to requests on the rfc-interest list, stable and “pretty”
URLs are now available for RFC errata entries. They appear as
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eidXXX>. This means that references
to errata can contain the URLs to a specific erratum. The RFC Style
Guide will be updated to incorporate the new URLs. Note that the
concatenated records (the "Full Records" in a search on the RFC Editor
website) remain URL search strings.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


No update was provided.


### 4. Liaison statement to Unicode


The IAB approved the text for the liaison statement to Unicode. Ted Hardie will work with Cindy Morgan to get this sent.


### 5. EName Workshop Proposal


The IAB briefly discussed the EName Workshop proposal. Ted Hardie asked the IAB to think about places to start scouting for potential submissions.


### 6. 2017 Retreat


The IAB reviewed the agenda for their retreat. Cindy Morgan will update the agenda based on the discussion.


