
### Minutes of the 2017-08-23 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza


##### Guest:


* Jun Murai


### 2. Tech Chat: Internet for 2050


Jun Murai joined the IAB to talk about the future of the Internet. He outlined his principles of the Internet as follows:


1. The Internet is the Internet, not internet
2. Single platform for the global computing resources
3. Ideal platform for sophisticated distributed systems
4. Moore-type requirements on computing and processing
5. Infinity digital data traffic
6. Redundant path, backup, contingency system
7. Secure the network system, not users.


Jun Murai noted that Japan had the second-most Internet users (after the United States) by 2003. Japan has considered the growth of the Internet through the design and implementation of IPv6, anticipating more users as the Internet becomes available in more places, as well as the growth of IoT devices. He added that it is important to respect the diversity of cultures from an engineering perspective, noting that character sets in email have been an issue in the IETF.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that planning for IETF 101 and 102 is progressing; the Plenary Planning Program is discussing tech chats for IETF 101.


Jari Arkko will reach out to contacts from Worldcon about IETF 100. Lee Howard will work with the Plenary Planning Program to find other potential speakers for IETF 100.


### 4. IRTF Open Access Journal


Allison Mankin said that she is gathering feedback about the idea of an IRTF open access journal. The idea is that the IRTF would still publish some RFCS (particularly those intended for IETF consumption), but have an additional document stream where submissions are peer-reviewed in the academic sense and published in an open access journal.


Robert Sparks asked if the journal would be published by the RFC Editor. Allison Mankin replied yes; she envisions it as a separate document stream that has a different review and approval process from IRTF stream RFCs.


Robert Sparks will ask the RSOC to invite Allison Mankin to a future RSOC meeting to discuss this idea further. Allison will write up a proposal for the journal.


### 5. EName Workshop Submissions


Suzanne Woolf reported that the EName Workshop Program Committee met to review the submissions for the workshop. The Program Committee will send out the workshop invitations.


### 6. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 20 July 2017, 2 August 2017, and 9 August 2017 business meetings remain under review. Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote to approve the minutes for those meetings.


### 7. Executive Session: ISE Discussion


This item was deferred to a future IAB agenda.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The call for nominations for the IETF appointment to the ICANN NomCom ended on 22 August 2017. Cindy Morgan will send out a message to the community requesting feedback on the candidates.


Lee Howard, Jeff Tantsura, and Suzanne Woolf will interview the candidates. Cindy Morgan will schedule the interviews.


