
Minutes of the 2017-07-20 IAB Meeting, Prague
---------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard


### Guests:


* Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair


### 1. IRTF Review: Internet Congestion Control (ICCRG)


Jana Iyengar updated the IAB on the current activities of the Internet Congestion Control Research Group (ICCRG).


ICCRG meets at nearly every IETF meetings, and has full agendas; they are already scheduling presentations at IEF 100 that they were not able to fit in to IETF 99. Meetings have been more focused on presentations than discussions; more discussion is desirable.


Ted Hardie asked if the RG is effectively continuing discussions outside of meetings. Jana Iyengar replied that the mailing list is fairly quiet; in the BBR discussions, people seem to agree on what the problems are, but not about how to address them.


Jana Iynegar noted that the ICCRG charter is out of date and that he hopes to have a new charter soon. ICCRG work touches on IETF work done in RMCAT and TCPM; Jana would like to involve the chairs of those groups in scoping the updated charter for ICCRG.


### 2. FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN


The IAB members present at the meeting voted to approve the text for the IAB response to the FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN. One more response is needed from one of the IAB members who was not present at the meeting in order to fulfill the IAB’s quorum requirements; Ted Hardie will follow up with an e-vote.


### 3. Executive Session


The IAB discussed several items in an executive session.


