
Minutes of the 2017-11-13 IAB Business Meeting, Singapore
---------------------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Olaf Kolkman
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf


### Remote:


* Robert Sparks


### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)


### 1. Privacy and Security Program review


Martin Thomson reported that since the last Privacy and Security  

Program review, the Program has:


* Published RFC 7754: Technical Considerations for Internet Service Blocking and Filtering
* Published RFC 7624: Confidentiality in the Face of Pervasive Surveillance: A Threat Model and Problem Statement
* Passed RFC 8165: Design Considerations for Metadata Insertion to the IESG
* Abandoned draft-iab-privsec-confidentiality-mitigations


Ted Hardie observed that the work items in the current Program description have been completed, but there is still more work to be done in this space. Lee Howard noted that the IAB and the Plenary Planning Program had come up with several potential privacy-related plenary topics. After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed that the Plenary Planning Program would present those topics to the Privacy and Security Program for consideration. Based on that discussion the Privacy and Security Program will update their Program description.


Martin Thomson will contact the current Program members and find out who wants to remain on the Program list.


### 2. Executive Session: Independent Series and Design Team


The IAB discussed the RFC Independent Series in an executive session.


### 3. Liaison with Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF)


Martin Thomson noted that there are a couple of IETF WGs that have work related to the Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF). The groups have been coordinating informally, but are interested in a more formal liaison relationship.


