
Minutes of the 2017-11-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Mark Nottingham
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the early bird deadline to register for IETF 100 is this Friday, 3 November 2017.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 4 October 2017 business meeting, the 18 October 2017 tech chat/business meeting, and the 25 October 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard asked to add an item to the IAB agenda in Singapore to discuss future technical plenaries.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 100


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 100.


### 4. IANA Program Web Page


Jari Arkko proposed updates to the IANA Program web page. Cindy Morgan will update the web page accordingly.


### 5. IAB Holiday Schedule


The IAB agreed on an adjusted conference call schedule for December and January. Cindy Morgan will update the calendar accordingly.


### 6. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB agreed upon the messaging for the IAB’s appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations.


### 7. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


The IAB agreed upon the timeline and messaging for the IAB’s appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Cindy Morgan will send out a call for nominations on Tuesday, 14 November 2017.


### 8. RSE Appointment


The IAB approved the text for the announcement that Heather Flanagan has been re-appointed as the RFC Series Editor. Ted Hardie will send the announcement.


### 9. Executive Session


The IAB discussed an item in an executive session.


