
Minutes of the 2017-07-16 IAB Meeting, Prague
---------------------------------------------


### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (remote)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


### Regrets:


* Joe Hildebrand


### Guests:


* Tim Wicinksi, IETF Liaison to the 2017 ICANN NomCom


### 1. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Tim Wicinski reported on the activities on the 2017 ICANN NomCom. Tim noted that this was the first ICANN NomCom to appoint members to the Public Technical Identifiers (PTI) Board of Directors, which manages the IANA functions used by the IETF.


### 2. FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN


The IAB discussed the draft text for a response to the FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN. Robert Sparks will update the text based on the discussion and send it out to the IAB for review. The IAB will discuss this further at their meeting on Thursday, 20 July 2017.


### 3. IAB workshop on Explicit Internet Naming Systems


The IAB approved the updated dates for the Explicit Internet Naming Systems workshop. Ted Hardie will re-send the call for papers, and Cindy Morgan will update the website.


### 4. Executive Session


The IAB discussed several items in an executive session.


