
Minutes of the 2017-10-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination Call for IETF 100 will be on 5 October 2017.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 September 2017, 13 September 2017, and 27 September 2017 business meetings remain under review.


Cindy Morgan will send out e-votes to handle the approval of the minutes currently under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell reported that Jun Murai, Monique Morrow, and Henning Schulzrinne are confirmed as speakers for the IETF 100 plenary. Brian Trammell will set up a Doodle poll to schedule a tech chat with Henning Schulzrinne.


The Plenary Planning Program continues to discuss options for IETF 101 and future plenaries.


### 3. EName Workshop Update


Ted Hardie reported that discussions have begun on the EName Workshop mailing list. He is hoping that the workshop will consider whether multiple systems can work together to solve some of the problems around internationalization.


### 4. Postponement of the Root KSK rollover


Ted Hardie reported that the planned KSK Rollover has been postponed by ICANN because it was recently learned that a significant number of resolvers used by ISPs and Network Operators are not yet ready for the Key Rollover. Ted noted that this highlights an architectural issue about the testability of hypotheses.


### 5. BOF Shepherds


Alexey Melnikov requested an early IAB shepherd for the proposed WebPackage work. Since several IAB members were not present, the IAB agreed to continue the discussion about finding a BOF shepherd via email.


### 6. Executive Session: ISE


The Independent Submissions Editor was discussed in an executive session.


