
Minutes of the 2017-09-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)


##### Guests:


* Scott Mansfield
* Alvaro Retana


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item about the IAB meeting on 4 October 2017 was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 September 2017 and the 13 September 2017 business meetings remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Liaison Statement from ITU-T SG20


Scott Mansfield gave the IAB an overview of several recent liaison statements from ITU-T SG20.


Alvaro Retana noted that Liaison 1547 relates to work in the charter for proposed IDEAS WG; the IESG will discuss whether the IDEAS charter is ready for external review at their meeting on 28 September 2017. The IESG will formulate a reply to that liaison statement.


Suzanne Woolf and Ted Hardie will talk to the IAB about who should respond to Liaison 1546 on IPv6 work items.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB discussed the IETF 100 technical plenary. Cindy Morgan will work with Brian Trammell to schedule a tech chat with Monique Morrow for 18 October 2017.


### 4. IAB statement on RPKI


The IAB agreed to take no action in response to the announcement that the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) trust anchor arrangement is transitioning to a new configuration. Ted Hardie will follow up with David Conrad.


### 5. Global Internet Report for 2017


Mat Ford noted that the [Global Internet Report for 2017](https://future.internetsociety.org/introduction/executive-summary/) was recently published, and offered to have someone from the Internet Society present the IAB with an overview of the report during IETF 100. Cindy Morgan will add this to the agenda for the Thursday breakfast meeting.


### 6. Internet Consolidation


The IAB agreed upon the text for an email to the IAB Programs about Internet consolidation. Jari Arkko will send the email to the Programs on behalf of the IAB.


### 7. EName Workshop Update


Ted Hardie reported that the workshop wiki has been populated, and that a draft of the workshop agenda is ready to be sent to the workshop participants.


### 8. MSP Rolling Plan 2018


Gabriel Montenegro reported that the European Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation is working on their rolling plan for 2018 and asked the IAB to review the draft and send feedback where appropriate. Brian Trammell noted that it might be helpful to include information about QUIC; he will meet with Mat Ford to discuss this further.


### 9. IAB Meeting on 4 October 2017


Ted Hardie noted that several people will be attending the QUIC interim meeting during the IAB meeting on 4 October 2017, so it is unlikely there will be quorum. Any decisions that need to be made will be followed up with via e-vote.


### 10. Executive Session: ISE


The Independent Submissions Editor was discussed in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB appointment to the ICANN NomCom was discussed in an executive session.


### 12. Executive Session: BANANA and Broadband Forum


The IETF liaison relationship with the Broadband Forum was discussed in an executive session.


