
Minutes of the 2017-10-25 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on the World Internet Conference was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 6 September 2017 business meeting
* 13 September 2017 business meeting
* 27 September 2017 business meeting


The minutes of the 4 October 2017 business meeting and the 18 October 2017 tech chat/business meeting remain under review.


The IAB agreed that e-votes to approve meeting minutes can be sent to the regular IAB list instead of the confidential IAB list.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to review the minutes from the IETF 100 BOF Coordination Call and send any changes to iesg-secretary@ietf.org by 26 October 2017.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries and Tech Chats


Brian Trammell reported that he will ping the panelists for IETF 100 to make sure that they are talking to each other.


GAIA has been suggested as a possible topic for the IETF 101 plenary; Brian Trammell will follow up with Arjuna Sathiaseelan.


Brian Trammell and Cindy Morgan will schedule a tech chat with Geoff Huston for after IETF 100.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 100


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 100. A joint meeting with the IAOC and IESG was added to their schedule for Thursday morning, so the IAB agenda will be adjusted to accommodate that.


Mat Ford will find out whether ISOC can talk about the Global Internet Report for 2017 on either Sunday or Monday.


After discussing the scheduling conflicts, the IAB decided not to review an IRTF Research Group at IETF 100. RG reviews will resume at IETF 101.


### 4. BOF/PRG Coverage at IETF 100


The IAB agreed on the following BOF/PRG coverage for IETF 100:


* Jeff Tantsura will cover the Data Center Routing (DCROUTING) BOF
* Jari Arkko, Alissa Cooper, Erik Nordmark, and Mark Nottingham will cover the Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) BOF. Martin Thomson is acting as the IAB shepherd.
* Jari Arkko, Alissa Cooper, and Ted Hardie will cover the IASA 2.0  

(IASA20) BOF.
* Alissa Cooper and Erik Nordmark will cover the Trusted Execution Environment Provisioning (TEEP) BOF.
* Jari Arkko and Erik Nordmark will cover the Decentralized Internet Infrastructure (DINRG) Proposed RG.


Ted Hardie asked Martin Thomson if he had any comments on how the SUIT work is progressing. Martin replied that there is a degree of interest. The original scope was very narrow, but interest from Cisco has caused the proponents to discuss broadening the draft charter.


### 5. World Internet Conference


Ted Hardie reported that he was invited to attend the World Internet Conference <http://www.wuzhenwic.org/index.html> being held in Wuzhen, China on 3-5 December 2017, but he will not be able to attend.


Alissa Cooper noted that she was also invited but is unable to attend.


### 6. ICANN TLG Appointment


The IAB discussed their appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will update the draft call for nominations text based on that discussion.


### 7: EName Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that the call to action coming out of the EName Workshop was to write up the suggestions that came up during the workshop and pass those on to the IAB for further work.


