
Minutes of the 2017-02-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Alissa Cooper (incoming IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham (incoming IAB)
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura (incoming IAB)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Administrivia


The IAB welcomed Gabriel Montenegro, Mark Nottingham, and Jeff Tantsura, who will be seated on the IAB at IETF 98.


An item on the 2017 IAB Retreat was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 1 February 2017 and 8 February 2017 business meetings were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. IETF 98 Tech Plenary


Brian Trammell reported that he and Suzanne Woolf met with Greg Wood to discuss the framing of the IETF 98 technical plenary. The framing should make clear that the topic is one that the IAB has been thinking about for a while, and not a reaction to any current events. Allison Mankin suggested that a blog post leading up to the plenary may be one way to help accomplish this.


A dry run with the plenary speakers is scheduled for the IAB meeting on 8 March 2017.


### 3. NTIA IOT Green Paper


Dave Thaler reported that the deadline for comments on the NTIA’s IoT Green Paper has been extended to 13 March 2017.


The IAB discussed the proposed text for the IAB comments on the NTIA IOT Green Paper. Russ Housley will update the text based on the comments received and send a new version out to the IAB for review. This item will be put back on the agenda for the next IAB meeting on 1 March 2017 for approval.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 98


The IAB briefly discussed their agenda at IETF 98. Allison Mankin took an action to propose a Research Group for the IAB to review during IETF 98. Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads to reserve time for their meetings in the wiki and to let her know if there are any catering requests. Brian Trammell asked for a volunteer to lead the Stack Evolution Program meeting in his absence; Ted Hardie volunteered.


### 5. draft-iab-rzerc-02


The IAB approved draft-iab-rzerc-02 for publication as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Amy Vezza will forward the document to the RFC Editor on behalf of the IAB.


### 6. draft-iab-protocol-transitions-06


The IAB reviewed the comments received on draft-iab-protocol-transitions during the community review period. Dave Thaler incorporated resolutions for several of the comments in version -06, but asked for someone else to go through the feedback and the diffs to confirm that the comments were adequately addressed. Erik Nordmark agreed to go through them. Dave noted that he is still waiting for a response from Lee Howard on one of the comments related to the IPv6 case study. Once Dave hears back from Erik and Lee, he will post version -07 of the document. He asked that this be put back on the agenda for the next IAB meeting on 1 March 2017.


### 7. 2017 Retreat


The IAB discussed potential dates for their 2017 retreat. Ideally, the  

IAB would like to have their retreat back-to-back with the IESG so  

that the IAB and IESG can have one joint day of meetings. One IAB  

member has a conflict on the IESG’s preferred week. Cindy Morgan will  

send out a Doodle poll to find out if the IESG’s second choice week  

would work better for the IAB.


### 8. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IAB appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees was discussed in an executive session.


### 9. Executive Session: IANA Evolution Program membership


The membership of the IANA Evolution Program was discussed in an executive session.


