
Minutes of the 2017-03-15 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Alissa Cooper (incoming IETF Chair)
* Ralph Droms
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie
* Joe Hildebrand
* Russ Housley
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham (incoming IAB)
* Robert Sparks
* Andrew Sullivan (IAB Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura (incoming IAB)
* Dave Thaler
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (IRTF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Suresh Krishnan (IESG Liaison)
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan asked the incoming and continuing IAB members to fill out the Doodle polls to select the times for the IAB teleconferences after IETF 98.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that nominations for IAB Chair will close later today; nominations should be sent to Andrew Sullivan. Once nominations are in, Andrew and Cindy will set up the mailing list for discussion of the candidates.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 8 March 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Technical Plenary at IETF 98


Brian Trammell reported that plans for the technical plenary at IETF 98 are on track; a second dry run is scheduled for Wednesday morning at IETF 98.


Andrew Sullivan thanked the Plenary Planning Program for the work they have done to organize this session.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 98


The IAB briefly reviewed their agenda for IETF 98. Cindy Morgan will add an item on the Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) Implementation Guidelines to the agenda.


### 4. draft-iab-protocol-transitions-08


Andrew Sullivan will start an e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-protocol-transitions-08 as an Informational document on the IAB stream.


Robert Sparks proposed one minor change to the text; the IAB agreed that the change could be handled in AUTH48.


### 5. Upcoming IAB Teleconferences


The IAB discussed the timing for future IAB teleconferences, noting that the diversity of time zones makes choosing a time that will work for everyone very difficult. The discussion will continue on the mailing list, and be resolved at IETF 98.


### 6. 2017 Retreat


The IAB very briefly discussed their 2017 retreat. Cindy Morgan will add a note to the wiki that potential topics for the joint day with the IESG should be added to the IESG wiki.


### 7. Executive Session: Internationalization Program


The Internationalization Program was discussed in an executive session.


### 8. Executive Session: ART Area Director Confirmation


In an executive session, the IAB confirmed the ART Area Director candidate presented by the IETF NomCom. Joe Hildebrand and Martin Thomson recused themselves from the discussion.


### 9. Executive Session: IANA Program


The IANA Evolution Program was discussed in an executive session.


