
Minutes of the 2017-09-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 20 July 2017 business meeting
* 2 August 2017 business meeting
* 9 August 2017 business meeting
* 23 August 2017 tech chat & business meeting


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB discussed the IETF 100 technical plenary. Jari Arkko and Allison Mankin will follow up with potential speakers.


### 3. Internet Choke Points


Mark Nottingham and Brian Trammell agreed to take the lead on drafting an IAB-stream document on Internet choke points.


### 4. IAB statement on RPKI


Ted Hardie reported that the RIRs are in the process of transitioning from the current Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) trust anchor arrangement to a new configuration where each RIR will publish a global trust anchor under which its own regional resources will be certified. Noting that the IAB had made a statement on the RPKI in 2010, Ted asked if the IAB wanted to provide any updated guidance. Lee Howard, Erik Nordmark, and Suzanne Woolf agreed to research the issue and come back to the IAB with their findings.


### 5. ISO and RFC 8141


The IAB discussed the possibility of fast-tracking RFC 8141 into an ISO Standard. Allison Mankin noted that IEEE 802 has had some of their standards fast-tracked by ISO before, and suggested asking Russ Housley what he knows about the process. Ted Hardie will also raise the issue with the IESG at their next informal telechat.


### 6. EName Workshop Update


The EName Workshop Program Committee has sent out invitations and is waiting for replies. The Program Committee will meet next week to discuss additional invitations and the workshop agenda.


### 7. IAB Workshop Boilerplate


The IAB agreed to update the guidance to the RFC Editor on boilerplate text for workshop reports, and to reflect changes brought on by RFC 7841. Robert Sparks will draft updated guidance and send it to the IAB for review.


### 8. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Cindy Morgan presented a draft timeline and messaging for the IABâ€™s appointment of a liaison to the ICANN Board. Ted Hardie and Suzanne Woolf agreed to review the draft timeline and messaging.


### 9. Executive Session: ISE Discussion


The Independent Submissions Editor was discussed in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB appointment to the ICANN NomCom was discussed in an executive session.


