
Minutes of the 2017-07-05 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Several new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 14 June 2017 and 28 June 2017 business meetings remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


A tech chat with Jun Murai has been confirmed for 23 August 2017.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 99


The IAB reviewed their agenda for IETF 99. Cindy Morgan will update the wiki and calendar based on the discussions.


The IAB will review the Internet Congestion Control Research Group on Thursday morning in Prague.


### 4. BOF and PRG Coverage for IETF 99


The IAB agreed on the following coverage for BOFs and proposed RGs at IETF 99:


* BANANA: Brian Trammell is one of the BOF chairs. Gabriel Montenegro will cover the BOF.
* IASA20: Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, Allison Mankin, and Suzanne Woolf will cover the BOF.
* IDEAS: Erik Nordmark is the IAB shepherd. Jari Arkko and Jeff Tantsura will cover the BOF.
* NETSLICING: Jeff Tantsura is the IAB shepherd. Jari Arkko, Gabriel Montenegro, and Martin Thomson tentatively agreed to cover the BOF.
* PANRG: Brian Trammell is one of the PRG chairs. Lee Howard will cover the BOF.


Allison Mankin asked if anyone was available to cover a side meeting on DIN, which is a potential new proposed RG. Suzanne Woolf replied that she would check her calendar and get back to Allison.


### 5. FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN


Robert Sparks presented a list of points in the FCC NOI on IETF STIR and ATIS SHAKEN on which the IAB might want to respond. Martin Thomson agreed to provide text on Certificate Transparency. Robert will draft proposed text for the IAB’s response and send it to the IAB for review by 11 July 2017.


### 6. EName Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that the EName Workshop Program Committee is still trying to find alternate dates for the workshop in order to remove some of the conflicts. He asked that any IAB members who are planning to attend the workshop let him know if they are also planning to attend the QUIC interim meeting in September.


### 7. Independent Submissions Editor Interview Process


Robert Sparks reported that interviews with candidates for the Independent Submissions Editor role are being scheduled for IETF 99. The search committee plans to make a recommendation to the IAB after IETF 99.


### 8. IAB Reports to the ISOC Board of Trustees


The IAB had no objection to the draft report to the ISOC Board of Trustees on Liaisons. Cindy Morgan will send the report to the chair of the ISOC BOT.


### 9. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Cindy Morgan presented a draft timeline for the IAB appointment to the ICANN NomCom. This topic has been added to the IAB agenda at IETF 99 to finalize the call for nominations messaging; recent changes related to the ICANN PTI and the ICANN meeting schedule have resulted in a change of scope for the NomCom from past years.


Ted Hardie suggested that the IAB invite Tim Wicinski, the outgoing liaison to the ICANN NomCom, to meet with the IAB in Prague to discuss this further. The IAB agreed that this was a good idea. Suzanne Woolf will follow up with Tim and extend an invitation.


Cindy Morgan will draft text for the call for nominations statement and send it to the IAB for review before IETF 99.


### 10. Update from ICANN Meeting


The IAB will meet with Jonne Soininen, IAB liaison to the ICANN Board, during IETF 99 to discuss what the IAB should be looking for in the next liaison to the ICANN Board.


Ted Hardie noted that ICANN is doing work on IDN and label generation rules.


Suzanne Woolf reported that RSSAC is working to figure out external accountability mechanisms for the root server operators.


### 11. RSOC Update


Robert Sparks reported that the RSOC will send a draft statement of work for the RFC Series Editor out to the IETF community for review soon.


