
Minutes of the 2017-09-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Michelle Cotton (ICANN Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An executive session was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 6 September 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
11 September 2017

Topics:

  I. Upcoming policy papers
 II. Engagements 
III. Highlights of recent activities

I. Upcoming policy papers

Community Network Spectrum Paper:  This paper focuses on spectrum and 
policy options to make spectrum available to community networks (CNs).  
We plan to release the paper before the International Telecommunication 
Union's (ITU) World Telecommunication Development Conference 2018 
(WTDC-18), and to work with regional colleagues during WTDC to promote 
community networks as a solution for providing affordable access to the 
underserved in rural, remote, and urban areas. 

Community Network Paper with the Digital Empowerment Foundation (DEF):  
This paper focuses on lessons learned and recommendations from one of 
ISOC's long-term partners in India - DEF.  We have been working with DEF 
since 2010 to develop community networks in rural and remote communities 
in India through a joint project called the Wireless for Communities 
project (W4C).  This paper provides insight into W4C's project work and 
policy recommendations to enable CNs in India.  The paper will be 
released in tandem with a CN workshop in Delhi on 20 September that 
ISOC, DEF, and APC are sponsoring together.

Barriers to Connectivity in Land-locked Developing Countries:  A study 
on land-locked developing countries will be released in tandem with the 
ITU WTDC-18.  The report focuses on barriers to connectivity and 
recommendations for removing those barriers.  Case-studies across many 
regions will accompany the paper.   

ISOC's Global Internet Report 2017 - "Paths to our Digital Future" (Date 
- 18 September): The Internet Society launched an initiative in 2016 to 
identify the uncertainties and factors that will shape the future of the 
Internet. Through interviews, round-tables and surveys, we have 
identified the key forces of change that we believe will shape the 
Internet in the coming 5-7 years, and importantly how it will impact 
society, digital divides, and individual freedoms and rights. The report 
will be launched in conjunction with ISOC's 25th Anniversary, and the 
findings will be at the center of the discussions at the InterCommunity 
2017: https://www.internetsociety.org/future-internet

II. Engagements 

Annual TPRC Conference, (8-9 September, Arlington, Virginia, USA)
ISOC staff will be moderating a panel at the annual Research Conference 
on Communications, Information and Internet Policy event. For more 
information about the event: http://www.tprcweb.com/

APT Telecom and ICT Development Forum and Digital Strategies Development 
Summit, (5-8 September, Manila, Philippines)
The 14th ADF, co-organised with the Asian Development Bank, will focus 
on cost-efficient broadband deployment, ICT for education, and extending 
connectivity to unserved and underserved areas. ISOC will present on 
community networks for rural access.

ITU Council Working Group (CWG) Meetings, (11-22 September, Geneva, 
Switzerland)
ISOC will be participating in the following CWG meetings in Geneva in 
September:
- 2nd Meeting of the Expert Groups on ITRs (EG-ITRs), September 13-15. 
The EG-ITRs will continue its review of the 2012 ITRs on the basis of 
inputs submitted. Terms of Reference for the review: 
https://www.itu.int/en/council/eg-itrs/Pages/more.aspx
- Open Consultation CWG (https://www.itu.int/en/council/cwg-internet/
Pages/default.aspx) on International Internet-related Public Policy 
Issues, September 18. The Open Consultation CWG-Internet  is open to all 
stakeholders and discussions will focus on the contributions submitted 
to the online consultation on "Public Policy Considerations for OTTs. 
- Council Working Group on WSIS: Implementation of Outcomes (WG-WSIS), 
September 19

Georgian IGF, (12 September, Tbilisi, Georgia)
The 3rd Georgian IGF is organised by local civil society organisations, 
business associations and the government. The agenda features topics 
such as Internet access, data protection and "fake news". During the 
same week, Internet Society together with its local partners will launch 
a community network project in the remote Georgian region of Tusheti. 
See http://geoigf.ge/en/ for details.

IGF Uruguay, (13 September, Montevideo, Uruguay)
ISOC local chapter and LAC Bureau staff will be at the 2nd IGF Uruguay 
that will take place at the Catholic University in Montevideo, 
addressing issues such as cybersecurity, privacy, social media policies, 
freedom of expression, sustainable development and accessibility. More 
information at: http://igf.isocuy.org

VIII Seminar on Privacy and Protection of Personal Data, (18-19 
September, Sao Paulo, Brazil)
The event is organized by CGI.br, which seeks to reaffirm freedom of 
expression on the Internet, the privacy of users and the respect for 
human rights in the network. More information: 
http://seminarioprivacidade.cgi.br

LACNIC 28 and LACNOG 2017, (18-22 September, Montevideo, Uruguay)
The LAC technical community meets in Montevideo in an event that will 
have technical training workshops on new technologies, security and 
promotion for the adoption of IPv6, conferences and panels on current 
issues and keynote presentations by international experts. LACNIC is 
also celebrating 15 years which will be a special time for this meeting. 
More information at: http://www.lacnic.net/web/eventos/lacnic28

InterCommunity 2017, (19 September)
In celebration of our 25th anniversary, we will take time to look back, 
to celebrate with our community and to look ahead to the future. 
Starting with the live presentation of the 2017 Internet Hall of Fame 
induction ceremony, InterCommunity will continue with a discussion of 
the key findings from our 2017 Global Internet Report that will launch 
on 18 September. We want to hear your views on what tomorrow's Internet 
might look like and how our community can make a positive impact. More 
information and registration is available here: 
https://www.internetsociety.org/intercommunity/2017

Community Networks Summit, (20 September, Delhi, India)
The ISOC APAC Bureau, APC and the Digital Empowerment Foundation are 
bringing community network providers together to discuss common 
concerns, challenges and solutions, and to provide a platform for 
collaboration and exchange of knowledge and experience. More 
information: http://cnxapac.org/

The Internet Infrastructure Technologies Workshop,  (20 September, 
Amman, Jordan)
The Middle East Bureau is organizing a workshop entitled "The Internet 
Infrastructure Technologies" in collaboration with Int@j, the 
Information and Communications Technology Association of Jordan on 20th 
September in Fairmont Hotel, Amman, Jordan.  The workshop will gather 70 
ISOC members, ISPs, and other  Int@j members. This is the first event 
organized by the Internet Society in Jordan.

IGFem, (20 September, Guadalajara, Mexico)
Following the ICOMM 2017, the University of Guadalajara will host this 
meeting to address the gender gap in the Internet. The situation of 
Mexican women in ICTs, cybersecurity and community networks will be some 
of the agenda items. Our YouthSIG, WomenSIG and IGF Mexico members are 
joining the efforts. More information will be shared in IGFem social 
channels. 

Digital Citizen Summit, (21-22 September, Delhi, India)
The Digital Empowerment Foundation is organising the 2nd annual D-Summit 
to deliberate on access, privacy, freedom of expression and digital 
literacy concerns as a way of promoting human rights online. APAC Bureau 
staff are participating. More information can be found at 
http://dsummit.defindia.org/

South Africa IGF, (22-23 September, Johannesburg, South Africa) 
The South African Internet Governance Forum 2017 (ZAIGF 2017) will be 
held at the Wanderers Club from the 22-23 September 2017, during ISPA's 
iWeek, under the theme: 'Internet Governance in South Africa - 
Harnessing ICT to Achieve Economic Inclusion'.  ISOC Gauteng Chapter is 
a partner to the event: https://www.zaigf.org.za/index.html

Roundtable for the Arab Ministers of Communications & Information 
Technology and heads of Arab ICT Regulatory Authorities, (26 September, 
Manama, Bahrain)
Middle East Bureau is participating in the Roundtable for the Arab 
Ministers of Communications & Information Technology and heads of Arab 
ICT Regulatory Authorities organized by the RIPE NCC.  The Roundtable 
focuses on the opportunities and challenges faced by the Internet 
sector, and its impact on the Arab countries' economy and security.

Forum on Internet Freedom in Africa, (27-30 September, Johannesburg, 
South Africa) 
The Collaboration on International ICT Policy for East and Southern 
Africa (CIPESA) and the Association for Progressive Communication (APC) 
will host the 2017 edition of the Forum on Internet Freedom in Africa 
(FIFAfrica). This year's Forum will be held in Johannesburg, South 
Africa, thus expanding the physical footprint of the Forum which has 
since inception in 2014 been held in Kampala, Uganda. ISOC will be 
represented. 

> [Home](https://cipesa.org/fifafrica/)



III. Highlights of Recent Activities 

IFLA statement on Internet shutdowns
At their recent annual conference, the International Federation of 
Library Associations (IFLA) published a statement (https://www.ifla.org/
files/assets/faife/statements/ifla_internet_shutdowns_statement.pdf) on 
the risks of Internet shutdowns and how they could affect the UN 2030 
Development Agenda. The statement makes reference to ISOC's own 
statement (https://www.internetsociety.org/letskeepiton) on this issue, 
stressing the importance to keep the Internet on. 

OTA Response to FTC Request for Comments on CAN-SPAM 
The Online Trust Alliance submitted a response to the United States 
Federal Trade Commission's request for comments on the CAN-SPAM Rule. 
View the submission at https://otalliance.org/initiatives/public-policy

Comments on the CRTC "Development of the Commission's broadband funding 
regime"
ISOC's North America Regional Bureau submitted comments to the Canadian 
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission's Telecom Notice of 
Consultation CRTC 2017-112 (http://www.crtc.gc.ca/eng/archive/
2017/2017-112.htm) on "Development of the Commission's broadband funding 
regime". Interventions including ISOC's are available here: 
https://tinyurl.com/y8n3kh62

DreamHost Case 
In July, the U.S. Government issued website-hosting company, DreamBox, 
with a search warrant for information on users to a protest website for 
the 2017 Presidential Inauguration. View ISOC's North American Regional 
Bureau blog post on this case here: https://www.internetsociety.org/
blog/north-america-bureau/2017/08/evidence-cost-trust-trouble-
department-justice-dreamhost-case
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Mat Ford–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Statistical Analysis of DNS Abuse in gTLDs (SADAG) Report
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/sadag-final-2017-08-09-en)
End: 19 September 2017



II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

Ongoing activities: 

Namespace issues
----------------
The namespace issues is an ongoing topic in ICANN. SSAC published a 
report already in December last year about it (SSAC90: 
https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/sac-090-en.pdf) and there 
has been a discussion between the ICANN board and SSAC in the last ICANN 
meeting. It is expected that this discussion will continue. In addition, 
GNSO has reached out to the DNSOP WG stating that they are planning work 
on this. This is most probably something IETF should pay attention to 
according IETF's abilities.

In the namespace issues, collisions is one of the key topics among many 
more.

Board renewal
-------------
The ICANN NomCom has published its outcome. I would like to point out 
that they have chosen Avri Doria as one of the new board members. Avri 
comes with a lot IETF background even if she has been very active in the 
ICANN space for a long time.


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN board retreat, September 21st-23rd, 2017
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 13 September 2017
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the July 2017 monthly 
statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.
  
- The process for drafting and review of the 2018 SLA has begun.
  
Other News:
   
- ICANN has begun interviewing candidates for the PTI President 
position.
 
- The RFP for PTI Service Organization Control Audits was posted.
https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2017-08-11-en
Responses are due September 8, 2017.  This audit includes the Annual 
Review of Protocol Parameter processes.
 
- With the approval of 'Special Use Domain 'home.arpa.'' (draft-ietf-
homenet-dot-14.txt), the IAB has been requested to officially approve 
the addition of home.arpa to the .arpa zone. 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
MEETING MINUTES - BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Monday, July 17, 2017
Lunch Meeting at IETF-99, Prague
1030 UTC 
 
Attendees:
Jari Arkko, IAB IANA Program Lead
Amanda Baber, PTI Lead IANA Services Specialist
Michelle Cotton, PTI Protocol Parameters Engagement Manager
Ted Hardie, IAB Chair
Russ Housley, IAB IANA Program
Ray Pelletier, IAD
Jonne Soininen, IAB liaison to ICANN Board
Suzanne Woolf, IAB IANA Program
 
 
1.  Introductions and Welcome
 
Elise had a family commitment. She will be arriving at the IETF meeting 
Monday afternoon.
 
2.  Review of Action Items
 
Completed: FY19 budget timing information was sent to this group.
 
In Progress: M. Cotton will send revised documentation for the Inactive 
Request process to the group (revision includes change to swim lane).
 
In Progress: Finalizing the Inactive Request Process report and 
consulting with ICANN legal regarding distribution.
 
3. Performance Report Reviews
 
Processed more than 1413 IETF-related requests during March 2017-June 
2017. This includes: Document reviews, registry creations, new 
registrations, modifications to existing registrations, and deletions. 
 
Added 4 new stand-alone registries since IETF-98 (March 2017-June 2017).
 
We continue to see a decline in the TRIP ITAD requests.  Freenum 
previously advertised where to get a TRIP ITAD, however this appears to 
not exist anymore.
 
Port requests continue to show acceptable response times.  At this time 
there is enough experts in the pool to review requests.
 
T. Hardie Question: What happens with registrations where the registrant 
has passed away?  Does the contact/reference automatically pass to the 
IESG?  M. Cotton responds that if there is any question about what the 
contact should be, the IESG would be asked.  With system ports, it is 
likely that the IESG would become the change controller unless there is 
a strong reason for a different contact.  

There is a request coming in for changes to port 443 as it is wanted by 
another service.  Mark Nottingham is working with the current registrant 
regarding the proposed changes.
 
Media Type requests continue to be monitored with the assistance of 
Alexey Melnikov in his role as ART Area Director.  There appears to be 
improvement in response times and there is no large backlog.  Reviews do 
not appear to be completed by both experts at this time, however we will 
be discussing this topic at this IETF meeting.
 
  
4.  SLA Deliverable Updates/Projects 
 
SLA Deliverables:
 
Average cumulative percentage for January 2017 through June 2017 was 
99.8%. 
 
The 2018 SLA will begin the review cycle in September 2017.  No new 
deliverables or additions were discussed at this lunch meeting.  If any 
group members think of anything that should be added, send email to the 
list.
 
The preliminary work for the 2018 Annual Audit Review is underway.  
Samples have been requested and delivered.  PWC is performing the audit 
this year and there will be an open bid for next year.
 
 
Projects:
 
Registry Workflow multi-year project
Done: Data Modeling/Database design
Done: Collecting all the wants/needs from IANA specialists processing 
requests
Now: Migrating current registry model into database driven model
Now: Focus Groups/Interviews with segmented groups in Prague
Future: Take the feedback and prioritize. Decide what we can/cannot do
Future: Determine if more feedback sessions are needed in Singapore
 
Gathering feedback from registry users, experts, document authors, WG 
Chairs, etc. is the main focus for this IETF meeting.  A call for 
volunteers to participate in feedback sessions was sent to the IETF 
list.  Group discussions and 1-1s have been scheduled to discuss needs/
wants from IANA registries.  Kim Davies and Ali Mohammadi are here from 
the IANA Services team to participate in the discussions.  Kim Davies 
will also be in Singapore.  An update on this work will be provided in 
Singapore.
 
RFC5226bis is now published as RFC 8126.
Accompanying help pages available at: https://www.iana.org/help/
protocol-registration
This page is a living document and will be updated over time as needed.  
Other Help pages will be added for other protocol parameter related 
topics.
 
5.  Informal Meeting Schedule
 
Proposed meeting schedule
In person July 17, 2017 (Prague)
Phone September 25, 2017
In person November 13, 2017 (Singapore)
Phone January 22, 2018
In person March 18, 2018 (London)
 
6.  Other Business
 
Potential topics for the September phone meeting
- Clarification on ideas for FY19 budget if needed
- If there is anything that looks problematic from feedback received
- Possibility to show mock-ups, if not in Singapore - have Kim come to 
lunch meeting
 
7. Summary of Action Items
 
In Progress
Action Item: M. Cotton will send documentation for the revised Inactive 
Request process to the group.
Action Item: M. Cotton will send the report for number of requests in the 
Inactive Queue to the IAB Chair after clarifying distribution 
instructions.
Action Item: M. Cotton will ping the group about the potential changes 
to the SLA before Singapore.
 
New
No new action items identified.
 
MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Series Editor Update

- Format
Text to XML: The tool that takes plain text Internet Drafts and
transforms them into xml2rfc v2 files has gone through several updates
as bugs are reported and decisions made as to whether they should be
fixed in code or handled manually. The current version of the code is
v1.2.2. The new version is available for installation with the python
installation program, pip: 'pip install id2xml'

RFCs with non-ASCII characters: draft-ietf-httpbis-rfc5987bis is now in
AUTH48 as RFC-to-be 8187. This is the first draft to go through the
publication process with non-ASCII characters. The precis document
cluster (https://www.rfc-editor.org/cluster_info.php?cid=C326) is the
next set of documents that will include non-ASCII characters. There are
no other documents in queue with non-ASCII characters at this time; no
additional documents with non-ASCII characters will be supported until
the new format tools are tested and in place.

Format -bis document authors: Henrik Levkowetz will be working as a
co-author on draft-iab-xml2rfc-v3-bis or draft-iab-rfcv3-preptool-bis.

Timeline: For an update on the planning timeline for the project, see:

https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan


- Computer History Museum and RFC Digital Preservation
The RFC Editor, IETF Trust, and Computer History Museum (CHM) have
reached an agreement on the text of the MoU. Final signatures from the
Trust and the CHM are expected in mid-September


RPC Update

- Errata information
The Info pages have been updated to more clearly indicate when errata
exist.  If errata exist, the info pages shows “View Errata” (for
example, see https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119).  If no errata
exist, the “View Errata” button does not appear (for example, see
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc821).  This is the same handling as
the HTML versions of RFCs available on the datatracker (see
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119 and https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc821).

- SLA
See: https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

The RPC currently is trending to be in Tier1 for Q3.
The Tier structure is a measure of the incoming workload.  The expected
turnaround time is adjusted based on the incoming workload.  The streams
have expressed they are content with the current rate of production.

From the Reports page notes:
Q3 2017: The editors continue to test id2xml and work on our internal
scripts and environment to handle the multiple file formats. In
addition, the RPC tested how the existing system and tools handle UTF-8
and made updates where possible. The editors will continue testing by
working a specified set of documents that contain UTF-8 through the
publication process. The first document containing UTF-8 is making its
way through AUTH48.

The number of pages submitted and moved to EDIT continue to be down so
far this quarter. The decrease in submissions has allowed the editors
more time to focus on testing.

The RFC Editor has responded to one legal request and another is underway.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


#### 2.5. IESG Liaison Report


Suzanne Woolf reported that the IESG is working on an update to the BOF template.


### 3. Request for approval to add “home” to the .arpa domain


Via an e-vote prior to the meeting, the IAB approved the addition of “home” to the .arpa domain. Ted Hardie will notify IANA.


### 4. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB discussed the IETF 100 technical plenary. Ted Hardie and Brian Trammell will follow up with potential speakers.


### 5. IAB statement on RPKI


Lee Howard, Erik Nordmark, and Suzanne Woolf are reviewing the IAB statement on RPKI and will make a recommendation to the IAB about whether to update it.


### 6. RFC 8141 on ISO Fast Track


Ted Hardie reported that he raised the possibility of fast-tracking RFC 8141 into an ISO Standard with the IESG. Ted will continue discussions to better understand how this might work.


### 7. EName Workshop Update


Ted Hardie reported that the EName Workshop Program Committee has extended an invitation to an additional participant.


### 8. IAB Guidance for Format for RFCs in the IAB Stream


The IAB approved the updated guidance for the format of RFCs in the IAB Stream. Robert Sparks will send the updated guidance to the RFC Editor.


### 9. Executive Session: Response to Liaison Statement on IPv6


The IAB discussed potential responses to a liaison statement in an executive session.


### 10: Executive Session: ISE


The Independent Submissions Editor was discussed in an executive session.


