
Minutes of the 2017-05-24 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Guest:


* Peter Yee (NomCom Chair)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle poll to select a time for the IETF 99 BOF Coordination call.


An item on IAB affiliations was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 10 May 2017 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that the Plenary Planning Program was unable to find speakers on the Internet in developing economies for the IETF 99 technical plenary. The IAB agreed to proceed without a technical plenary at IETF 99 and focus on IETF 100.


Lee Howard and Brian Trammell will convene a meeting of the Plenary Planning program sometime in the next two weeks to discuss plans for future plenaries.


### 3. Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation Liaison


Ted Hardie will start an e-vote on replacing one of the current liaisons to the Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation.


### 4. IETF Journal article and external IAB Communications


Ted Hardie thanked the IAB for their feedback on the draft of his article for the IETF Journal.


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to consider future blog topics. Jari Arkko suggested that he and Jeff Tantsura could write something on 5G. Jari also suggested that a blog post on the recent IAB retreat would be useful. Alissa Cooper noted that she is already writing a post on the IESG retreat. Ted Hardie agreed to draft a blog post on the IAB retreat.


### 5. Documents the IAB Should Write


The IAB discussed possible the documents the IAB should write and came up with a few options:


* A document on connectivity as an update to RFC 4084/BCP 104
	+ Ted Hardie noted that an update to a BCP would require IETF  
	
	consensus, but that the IAB has sent documents through the IETF process before.
	+ Brian Trammell will set up a github repository to begin work on this draft.
* A document on endpoints
	+ Brian Trammell, Lee Howard, Ted Hardie, and Martin Thomson had previously agreed to work on this document during the 2017 IAB retreat.
	+ Lee Howard reported that he had some draft text for this already.
* A document on end users as a priority
	+ Mark Nottingham already has an individual draft on this topic (draft-nottingham-for-the-users).


The IAB will continue the discussion via email and at a future IAB meeting.


### 6. Liaison Shepherd For the Community Coordination Group (CCG)


Robert Sparks agreed to be the liaison shepherd for the CCG.


### 7. Liaison Shepherd for ICANN RZERC


Ted Hardie and Suzanne Woolf agreed to be the liaison shepherds for ICANN RZERC. Ted and Suzanne will follow up with the current IAB appointee to the RZERC and find out if he is willing to continue for another term.


### 8. IAB Affiliation


The IAB discussed how to record the affiliation of members who have short-term contracts. The IAB agreed to continue listing such members as “Independent,” with the affiliations of such contracts being disclosed to the NomCom during the course of the NomCom process.


