
Minutes of the 2018-11-28 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Melinda Shore
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


There was not a quorum of IAB members present on the call, so any items requiring a formal decision will require follow-up by e-vote.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved by e-vote:


* 2018-10-24 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-10-24)
* 2018-11-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-05)
* 2018-11-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-06)
* 2018-11-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-08)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2018-10-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-10-10)
* 2018-11-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-21)


Alissa Cooper asked if the IAB should consider changing how meeting minutes are approved, now that the meetings are open to observers. She suggested that rather than an explicit vote, the IAB could consider meeting minutes approved two weeks after being posted for review unless someone raises an objection. The IAB members present on the call were amenable to this plan; Cindy Morgan will write up the proposal and send an e-vote on this out to the IAB.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. EName Workshop Report


Via a combination of e-vote and voice vote, the IAB approved changing the process for publishing the EName Workshop report. Rather than publishing an RFC, the workshop report will be made a part of the [existing workshop pages](https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/explicit-internet-naming-systems-ename/) once it has been approved by the IAB.


### 3. Update to IANA Unicode tables


Ted Hardie reported that the expected update to draft-faltstrom-unicode11 has not been submitted yet and asked to defer discussion of whether to ask the IESG to proceed with the update of IANA Unicode tables until the new version is posted. Ted reported that the author plans to have the new version posted by this weekend.


### 4. CIPE Workshop


The IAB discussed the call for papers for the CIPE Workshop. Christian Huitema said that the IAB needs to decide between two possible models for the workshop.


The first model would focus on:


* Where network effects meet economies of scale, monopolies tend to emerge.
* Those monopolies are well-positioned to make new markets related to their captured users.
* When data about the users is valued, one of those markets is likely to be a market in user data or attention; machine learning-based systems likely heighten the value of the data about users, and they may make this a dominant market where it wasn’t already.
* The distribution systems of the Internet accelerated the development of this effect for Internet platforms which had network effects.


Christian Huitema noted that most of the actions that could result from this workshop fall outside of the IAB’s bailiwick.


The second model would focus on:


* A number of Internet infrastructure elements’ designs presumed a deployment model of widely distributed actors. The DNS presumed deep hierarchies, the email standards many providers, and VoIP providers in globally interconnected replacement for the PSTN.
* In reality, deployment has often varied from these assumptions. Concentration due to DDOS resilience, for example, has impacted both the DNS and email (where SPAM is a DDOS as well as targeted attack).
* When those assumptions are not met, the initial security and privacy analyses may also be wrong. The initial system design may have relied on facilities that are no longer practically available to empower the users.


Christian Huitema noted that the second model would be much smaller in scale, and it might be difficult to attract the right people to attend it.


After discussion, the IAB members present on the call agreed that the second, more focused workshop scope would be more appropriate for the IAB. Ted Hardie and Christian Huitema will re-scope the call for papers accordingly.


Ted Hardie asked if the Internet Society would have an interest in developing something closer to the scope of the first workshop proposal. Karen O’Donoghue will review this to see how it fits into the work the Internet Society is currently doing on Internet consolidation.


### 5. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the ESCAPE Workshop Program Committee is still trying to find a location for the workshop; if the location isn’t finalized and the workshop announced by 10 December 2018, they will push back the workshop dates until April or May.


### 6. draft-iab-path-signals


Via a combination of e-vote and voice vote, the IAB approved sending draft-iab-path-signals-02 out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send out the review message.


### 7. ENUM processing/ITU submission


Ted Hardie reported that he, Alissa Cooper, Christian Huitema, and Olaf Kolkman have reviewed the ENUM submission to ITU-T SG2 regarding the IAB instructions for operation of the e164.arpa domain. Ted will compile the feedback and send it to Marco Hogewoning. The next steps will be discussed at the IAB meeting on 19 December 2018.


### 8. Plenary Planning Program Update


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to send any ideas for future plenaries to the list. He added that if there are topics that might be more appropriate for a targeted segment of the community rather than a full plenary, they should send those out as well, since the IAB has been discussing other ways to have technical topics at IETF meetings.


Cindy Morgan will ping Melinda Shore about re-starting the conversation about the Program’s membership.


### 9. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, the ISOC Board of Trustees, and the IRTF Chair in an executive session.


