
Minutes of the 2018-04-04 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Jari Arkko
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Erik Nordmark
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Minutes


Cindy Morgan will send out e-ballots to approve the outstanding meeting minutes.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


This item was deferred to a future IAB business meeting.


### 3. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that the budget for the workshop has been finalized.


Allison Mankin reported that the workshop is looking for more submissions; the deadline to submit papers is 20 April 2018.


Allison Mankin noted that the workshop Program Committee has received a question about transparency; the committee will likely post a response to that soon.


### 4. IAB Statement on the RPKI


The IAB approved a statement on the RPKI via e-vote prior to this meeting. The statement has been [posted on the IAB website](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2018-2/iab-statement-on-the-rpki/).


### 5. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed potential agenda items for their upcoming retreat. The discussions will continue via email.


### 6. KSK Rollover Plan


Ted Hardie asked the IAB if they want to comment on the planned KSK rollover plan (see <<https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/ksk-rollover>>). After a brief discussion, the IAB members who were on the call agreed that an IAB comment in support of rolling over the KSK could be useful. Ted Hardie will draft text for the IAB’s comment and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 7. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


This item was deferred to a future IAB business meeting.


### 8. Other Business


The IAB agreed to have dinner together on Thursday during the IAB retreat.


