
Minutes of the 2018-03-22 IAB Business Meeting, London
------------------------------------------------------


### Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Christian Huitema
* Olaf Kolkman (Internet Society)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Regrets:


* Robert Sparks


#### Guests:


* Dave Plonka
* Mirja Kühlewind


### 1. IRTF Review: Measurement and Analysis for Protocols (MAPRG)


Dave Plonka and Mirja Kühlewind updated the IAB on the current activities of the Measurement and Analysis for Protocols (maprg) Research Group. The RG was chartered in 2016 to measure the real Internet conditions of the IETF protocols that are currently being worked on.


The RG makes direct solicitations of people they think will have relevant measurements. Contributions are driven by the charter, focused on the measurement data offered and the ongoing updates of measurements previously presented. The chairs review slides and provide feedback in advance so that presentations have the best fit with an IETF audience.


The RG is considering initiating new measurement efforts around IOT. The group is also discussing ways to better connect their topics to IETF Working Groups. Gabriel Montenegro suggested that advertising the RG to the IOT Directorate would get the message to many of the relevant Working Groups.


Alissa Cooper noted that a lot of the work happening in MAPRG is of wide interest, and asked if there was anyone who could do a general writeup of some of the more interesting data for the IETF blog.


### 2. Liaison Program Review


Ted Hardie suggested that the current IETF liaisons could be clustered so there is more cross-pollination. Brian Trammell noted that the event rate is often very low, and that the IAB should try to reduce the importance of formal liaisons by doing more informally. He suggested that the IAB needs to engage the liaison managers more, and perhaps might want to start reviewing liaison relationships periodically the same way that the IRTF Research Groups are reviewed.


Suzanne Woolf observed that all liaison relationships are different, so there is no “one size fits all” approach. She suggested looking at the IETF’s current liaison relationships and coming up with a couple of different models.


The IAB agreed to discuss this further over email and at the IAB retreat. Ted Hardie took an action item to define possible liaison clusters.


### 3. Internal Liaisons


Melinda Shore will be the IAB’s liaison to the 2018-2019 NomCom.


Jeff Tantsura will be the IAB’s liaison to the IESG, but he will not be able to attend the IESG retreat.


### 4. IASA 2.0


Ted Hardie, Alissa Cooper, Suzanne Woolf, and Joe Hildebrand took an action to look at the IETF operating agreement and make sure that it treats the IAB and IRTF in a way that makes sense.


### 5. Community Coordination Group (CCG)


Ted Hardie noted that Andrew Sullivan is now one of the IETF Trusteesas per his role on the IAOC, and as such will need to be replaced on the Community Coordination Group.


