
Minutes of the 2018-05-30 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham


##### Guest:


Jon Crowcroft


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item about the IAB agenda in Montreal was added to the agenda.


### 2. Tech Chat: The Hub-of-All-Things (HAT)


Jon Crowcroft joined the IAB to discuss Hub-of-All-Things (HAT) ecosystem. The HAT ecosystem is to evolve and emerge a digital service ecosystem of organizations and people where individuals are able to acquire, use, control and exchange their own data for their own good and the good of society. The HAT Community Foundation is a membership organization startup for the Regulation, Innovation, Growth & Representation in the HAT personal data ecosystem. There is also a research community that is trying to increase knowledge in the HAT personal data ecosystem and look at the ethical constraints between economics, business research, and sociology. The HAT Data Exchange is a commercial startup managing and operating the HAT personal data ecosystem.


Martin Thomson asked how HAT manages privacy in an ecosystem that allows direct access to data as well as support for in-aggregate reporting. Jon Crowcroft replied that there is a tension between technology and regulators; in the EU, that has resulted in the GDPR. There is also work on aggregate machine learning, which would prevent the exposure of individual data at the interim stages.


Christian Huitema asked how the HAT work fits in with other similar projects. Jon Crowcroft replied that people have the same goal, but it will depend on how the technology emerges.


Christian Huitema noted that security is an issue, and asked how DoS attacks would be managed. Jon Crowcroft replied that the number of servers involved would make DoS attacks irrelevant; there are already replica servers in place.


Ted Hardie observed that currently we have an attention-based economy, where users pay by giving their attention to something, and asked how replacing attention with aggregate data would avoid the trap of having to collect more and more aggregated data to sell. Jon Crowcroft replied that he did not have an answer for that.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Melinda Shore will follow up with potential speakers for a tech plenary in Montreal on the conglomeration of personal data and decentralization. The IAB will decide by 6 June 2018 whether to proceed with a technical plenary in Montreal.


Jari Arkko reported that he is continuing to make inquiries to science fiction authors.


### 4. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 May 2018 tech chat & business meeting were approved. The minutes of the 16 May 2018 business meeting remain under review.


### 5. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 6. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that the agenda has been published for the Applied Networking Research Workshop, and that she is putting together a list of conflicts with the IETF meeting agenda.


Allison Mankin will follow up with the IAOC regarding possible discounted attendance at IETF 102 for ANRW attendees.


### 7. IAB agenda in Montreal


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to start thinking about agenda topics for the IAB at IETF 102.


Suzanne Woolf and Cindy Morgan will follow up with the IETF’s ICANN liaison managers to find the best time for all of them to meet with the IAB at IETF 102.


### 8. Executive Session: RZERC Appointment


The IAB’s appointment to the RZERC was discussed in an executive session.


### 9. Executive Session: RFC++ BoF proposal


The RFC++ BOF Proposal was discussed in an executive session.


