
Minutes of the 2018-10-10 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (incoming ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Jonne Soininen (outgoing ICANN Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)


##### Observers:


* Lucy Lynch


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2018-10-03 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB 
10 October 2018 

I.   Upcoming Papers

Policy Brief on Routing Security
The previously mentioned Policy Brief on Routing Security will be 
released in October. The policy brief will provide policymakers with an 
overview of challenges related to routing security and key 
considerations around the routing ecosystem. It also includes 
recommendations to consider when approaching issues related to routing 
security. 

Extraterritorial Concept Note
This Concept Note sets out problems that occur when states exert extra-
territorial jurisdiction – i.e. when they make policy or judicial 
decisions that exert jurisdiction outside the country’s territory, 
either by accident or design. We suggest an approach to avoid or 
minimize judicial or regulatory decisions that can harm the Internet’s 
global reach and unique characteristics. But fundamentally, states 
should not act to stem the flow of ideas and information the Internet 
brings, especially to their own citizens. 

Spectrum Policy Paper
A comprehensive spectrum paper focused on Community Networks and options 
for spectrum use and changing policies and regulatory options for 
spectrum use will be out before the ITU Plenipotentiary in mid-October.  
The team provided Chapter Members and the OMAC with a draft and 
excellent feed-back was received from over 100 respondents.

Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) Community Network Paper
A survey of LAC countries and community network practices and policies 
will be released before the IGF in November.  The CN campaign team is 
working with FGV, APC, and Redes Communica who are drafting the report.  
The plan is to circulate it to members in October for feed-back and 
input.

APAC Internet Policy Survey 2018. 
Now on its 5th installment, the annual survey will be focused this year 
on IoT security this year in support of our IoT campaign, soliciting 
end-user views from 950 participants across 22 economies in Asia-
Pacific. 

II.  Highlights of Recent Activities

The APAC Bureau has released its Digital Accessibility Guidelines for 
policymakers and software developers, based on 2 years of work on 
promoting accessibility in the region. 

The W20 Summit was held in Buenos Aires, Argentina from 1-3 October. The 
LAC Bureau participated in the meeting, and the Internet Society and 
(APC) published a background paper for the G20-W20 on Women's Digital 
Inclusion.

APT Symposium on Cybersecurity, 12-14 Sept, Seoul South Korea. 
The APAC Bureau organised a workshop for policymakers across Asia-
Pacific, based on the IoT Security Guidelines for Policymakers paper and 
the MANRS campaign

The APAC Bureau conducted workshops on Community Networks and Digital 
Accessibility, and hosted a reception at the recently held Asia-Pacific 
Regional IGF in Port Vila, Vanuatu

Forum on Internet Freedom in Africa 2018 (FIFAfrica18), Accra, Ghana 
26-28 September, 2018
The Forum convened various stakeholders from the Internet governance and 
online rights arenas in Africa and beyond to deliberate on gaps, 
concerns and opportunities for advancing privacy, access to information, 
free expression, non-discrimination and the free flow of information 
online on the continent. This year, the Collaboration on International 
ICT Policy in East and Southern Africa (CIPESA) hosts FIFAfrica18 in 
partnership with the Media Foundation West Africa (MFWA). The Internet 
Society supported the event and was represented by the Internet Society 
Uganda and Ghana chapters.


III.  Upcoming Activities

Indigenous Community Summit, Inuvik, Canada, 11-12 October 2018. 
The NA Bureau is hosting  its second Indigenous Connectivity Summitheld 
in Inuvik, Canada with a pre-conference training on community networks 
at the University of Alberta North in Edmonton, Canada. 

2018 Africa Summit for Women and Girls in Tech, Accra, Ghana, 9-11 
October 2018. 
The Internet Society, as part of the EQUALS Global Partnershipwork, 
supports the Summit and will be speaking at the workshop: Institutional 
Support for Women in Tech. 

Sixth African School on Internet Governance (AfriSIG), Zanzibar, 11 to 
16 October 2018. 
The Association for Progressive Communications (APC) and the African 
Union Commission will host the sixth class of the African School of 
Internet Governance. The event  will be preceded by a workshop presented 
by the Internet Society's Collaborative Governance Project which will 
start on the 9th October. ISOC is a part sponsor to this event and will 
be represented by Verengai Mabika and Dawit Bekele. Lawrence Strickling 
and Fiona Asonga will be facilitating the collaborative Governance 
sessions.

First African Forum on Cybercrime, Addis Ababa, 16-18 October 2018: 
The African Forum on Cybercrime is organized by the African Union 
Commission and supported, Council of Europe, European Union, INTERPOL, 
UNODC, US DOJ/State Department, UK Government and the Commonwealth 
Secretariat. This forum will  focus on three major thematic streams 
namely, Cybercrime policies and national legislations, with respect to 
regional and international standards and relevant implementation 
practices; International cooperation to fight against cybercrime and 
proper handling cross-border of electronic evidence and  strengthening 
criminal justice authorities through adequate plans of capacity building 
and synergies with related programmes implemented in Africa.

ITU Plenipotentiary Conference (PP-18), Dubai, UAE, 29 October-16 
November 2018. 
As a Sector Member of the ITU the Internet Society will be attending 
Plenipotentiary 2018. The Internet Society delegation will be led by 
President and CEO, Andrew Sullivan. An ISOC@PP-18 gathering for our 
community, partners and other invited guests will be held during the 
first week of the Conference. The Internet Society published a Matrix of 
PP-18 issues here: https://www.internetsociety.org/events/un/
plenipot-2018/isoc-activities/. Additional resources and updates will be 
available before and during PP-18 on the Internet Society website 
https://www.internetsociety.org/events/un/plenipot-2018/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)


Proposed gTLD-Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Profile
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/proposed-rdap-profile-2018-08-31-
en)
End date: 13 Oct 2018 

Registration Directory Service (RDS-WHOIS2) Review Team Draft Report of 
Recommendations
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/rds-whois2-review-2018-09-04-en)
End date: 4 Nov 2018 

Proposals for Malayalam and Tamil Scripts' Root Zone Label Generation 
Rules
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/malayalam-tamil-2018-09-25-en)
End date: 7 Nov 2018

Draft PTI and IANA FY20 Operating Plan and Budgets
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/pti-iana-fy20-2018-09-28-en)
End date: 12 Nov 2018

Proposal for Sinhala Script Root Zone Label Generation Rules
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/sinhala-lgr-2018-10-02-en)
End date: 14 Nov 2018

Initial Report of the New gTLD Auction Proceeds Cross-Community Working 
Group
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/new-gtld-auction-proceeds-
initial-2018-10-08-en)
End date: 27 Nov 2018


II.  Topics that could be relevant
========================

Ongoing activities: 

KSK Rollover
—————————
The board approved the KSK rollover and it set to roll over tomorrow at 
16UTC: https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/ksk-rollover

Namespace issues
————————
The namespace issues topic has not moved between SSAC and the board. 
However, there will be discussions between SSAC and the board at the 
ICANN Barcelona meeting. It is expected that the direction of this 
project will be determined in the meeting and there is hopefully then 
more to report.

IETF Liaison change
———————
The IETF liaison to the ICANN board will change at the end of the Annual 
General Meeting at October 25th. After that Harald Alvestrand will be 
the IETF liaison.


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN#63 Meeting, 20-25 October 2018
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


Ted Hardie noted that this would be Jonne Soininen’s last report to the IAB as ICANN liaison. The IAB thanked Jonne for his service in this role over the past five years.


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 10 October 2018
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for both the August 2018 
monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of 
processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has 
control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors 
or other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
- The Root Key Signing Key (KSK) Rollover is scheduled for this week,  
11 October 2018.
   
- Waiting for response from IDNA expert regarding posting of revised 
tables.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
  
- None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE
* RFC Format
Testing of the various tools associated with the new format continues. 
Issues, as captured in draft-levkowetz-xml2rfc-v3-implementation-notes, 
are being posted both on the xml2rfc-dev mailing list and in GitHub 
(https://github.com/rfc-format/draft-iab-xml2rfc-v3-bis/issues). The 
discussion is happening on the mailing list, and resolution recorded in 
GitHub. This will inform the -bis process for the various format RFCs, 
with a focus right now on the xml2rfc v3 vocabulary.

See https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan for 
information on the expected release schedule for the various tools.

* GitHub Experiment
As mentioned in the last report, with the publication of RFC 8446 (TLS 
1.3), the first half of the experiment to use GitHub during AUTH48 is 
complete. The second half of the experiment, originally targeting the 
JSEP draft, is on hold. A different draft will be selected by the IESG 
in the future, one that is not as heavily linked to a complex cluster. 
For more information on the process being followed, please see:

https://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/doku.php?id=github_auth48_experiment

* RFC Editor 2019 Priorities

The RSE and key RPC staff met October 4 to discuss the priority and 
scope of work in 2019. The core mission of the RFC Editor is to publish 
high quality documents in a timely manner, and that remains the main 
goal for the RFC Editor. The timeliness will, as discussed with the 
stream managers over the last several years, will be impacted with the 
new format - by how much remains to be seen, but the time taken to test 
the tools, review the outputs, and rewrite procedures, impacts the rate 
of publication.

In addition to the core goal of publishing documents plus rolling out 
the new format, the RFC Editor will prioritize outreach and education 
regarding the Series. This includes determining the extent of confusion 
over streams and statuses, and considering the most effective ways to 
resolve any such confusion.

The meeting with the RPC was just the first step in identifying and 
prioritizing RFC Editor efforts; the next steps will be to discuss this 
in more detail with the RSOC, the stream managers, and the community.

RPC
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

The RPC did not meet the SLA for Q3 2018 at Tier 1 (defined as: "When 
there is a normal amount of input, the SLA is 67% of documents published 
within the period have an RFC Editor-controlled time that adds up to six 
weeks or fewer. Where ‘normal’ is defined as less than 1950 Pages gone 
to EDIT (PGTE).")

From the reports page:
Q3 2018 notes: The editors continue to diligently work through the 
documents in the queue. Figure 3 shows a steady decline in the number of 
pages in RPC actionable states since July. In addition to continuing 
testing of svgcheck, rfclint, and rfc-xmldiff, the RPC has also started 
testing the tool that converts .xml to .txt. As discussed with the 
stream managers previously, we are starting to see the impact of the 
format work on queue processing times.

As an experimental process, GitHub was used during AUTH48 for draft-
ietf-tls-tls13-28, which was published as RFC 8446. Information about 
the process is available at https://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/
doku.php?id=github_auth48_experiment. The relevant parties have agreed 
that draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-24 is not an appropriate test case for this 
GitHub experiment. The IESG will select an alternate document to 
continue the experiment.

The RFC Editor responded to a sizable legal request (14 individual 
declarations).
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Alissa Cooper asked whether an additional editor should be budgeted for in 2019, given the increased workload in testing the new format tools. Heather Flanagan replied that an additional editor had already been budgeted for and that the RPC has asked Portia Wenze-Danley to release those funds for additional editor time January 2019. Heather added that it is likely that that the additional editor time will be added by increasing the time of staff that is currently part-time.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 103


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 103. The IAB agreed to invite Konstantinos Komaitis to the Sunday IAB meeting to discuss the Internet Society’s Extraterritorial Concept Note. The IAB will also invite Mat Ford to give an update from the ITU Plenipotentiary Conference 2018.


The IAB agreed to add topics on Internet consolidation and the CIPE workshop to their agenda for Monday.


Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads to send her the details for any Program meetings.


Alissa Cooper noted that the wrap-up meeting between the IESG and IAB may conflict with some of the side meetings planned for Friday. Ted Hardie asked if anyone on the IAB would object to moving that meeting earlier, to 0700-0900. No one objected. The IESG will discuss the timing of the wrap-up meeting at their next teleconference and Alissa Cooper will report back.


The IAB identified preliminary coverage for the BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 103. They will confirm these once the final agenda is published.


### 4. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that Martin Thomson has agreed to serve on the ESCAPE Workshop Program Committee.


The IAB approved the current text for the workshop’s call for papers. Mark Nottingham noted that the W3C TAG still needs to approve the text; he will follow up with them and report back to the IAB.


The IAB discussed how long the workshop should be, and agreed that 1.5 days is a good length.


### 5. Current Internet Perception and Evolution (CIPE) Workshop


Brian Trammell reported that he has updated the CIPE Workshop proposal based on the comments in the email thread. He noted that the biggest open issue remaining is the timing of the workshop. The IAB will continue to discuss potential dates and conflicts via email.


### 6. draft-iab-path-signals-01


Ted Hardie reported that he has received comments on draft-iab-path-signals from Erik Nordmark and Mark Nottingham, and that there is ongoing discussion on the list to resolve those issues.


### 7. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that she sent an email to the Plenary Planning Program about expanding the Program’s membership, but did not get any responses. Melinda will send a call for participation in the Program to the IETF discussion list.


### 8. Australian Assistance and Access Bill 2018


The IAB agreed to send the [comments that they previously sent to the Australian Department of Home Affairs on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill 2018](https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/2018/09/IAB-Comments-on-Australian-Assistance-and-Access-Bill-2018.pdf) (see <https://www.iab.org/wp-content/IAB-uploads/ 2018/09/IAB-Comments-on-Australian-Assistance-and-Access-Bill-2018.pdf>) to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security. Ted Hardie will forward the comments on behalf of the IAB.


### 9. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group and the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session.


