
Minutes of the 2018-10-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the IETF 103 BoF Coordination Call minutes.


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2018-09-12 business meeting minutes
* 2018-09-26 tech chat & business meeting minutes


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 103


The IAB discussed their agenda at IETF 103.


Allison Mankin suggested via email that the IAB review the Decentralized Internet Infrastructure Proposed RG (DINRG). The IAB agreed with that suggestion. Melinda Shore added that the chairs would be available for the review.


The IAB discussed reviewing the ITU-T liaison cluster in Bangkok. Cindy Morgan will send an email to the ITU-T liaison managers and shepherds to see if they can join one of the meetings in Bangkok. Ted Hardie pointed out that one of the liaison managers will be very busy with IETF NomCom work at IETF 103, and suggested that the review could also happen during a conference call if a workable time could not be found in Bangkok.


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to add other topics to the agenda in the wiki.


Program Leads were asked to start scheduling their Program meetings.


### 3. ESCAPE Workshop


The IAB discussed the draft call for papers for the ESCAPE workshop. Mark Nottingham will update the text based on the feedback received, and the call for papers will return to the 2018-10-10 IAB agenda for approval.


Mark Nottingham reported that there is an offer to host the workshop in New York; he was able to visit the space when he attended the recent QUIC interim, and said that the room would hold 50-80 people, depending on how it was configured.


The workshop program committee will likely either include 2 IAB members, 2 W3C TAG members, and 2 members from the publishing industry, or 3 IAB members and 3 W3C TAG members. Mark Nottingham agreed to be one of the program committee members from the IAB side. After a brief discussion, Mark also took an action to find out if Martin Thomson would be available to participate in the program committee.


Ted Hardie asked whether IAB and IESG members would have to submit a paper in order to be invited to the workshop. Mark Nottingham said it would depend on the number of submissions they receive. Robert Sparks said that the question could not be deferred for too long, as interested IAB and IESG members would need time if they had to submit a paper. The IAB asked Deborah Brungard to give the IESG a heads-up that this workshop is being planned.


### 4. Shine Workshop


Noting that the discussion about the workshop proposal is still active on the IAB list, Ted Hardie asked that the call for papers be put on the 2018-10-10 IAB agenda for approval.


Christian Huitema asked what the proposed timing of the workshop would be. The IAB tentatively said sometime in February or March 2019, but noted that there are several potential conflicts that would need to be navigated. Ted Hardie asked the IAB to come up with a list of the potential conflicts that the workshop should avoid.


### 5. draft-iab-path-signals-01


The IAB discussed whether draft-iab-path-signals is ready to send out for community review.


Erik Nordmark asked whether some context would be needed up front to address the comments already received on draft-trammell-wire-image. Mark Nottingham said that he had the same concern.


Ted Hardie replied that the two documents had been separated out originally because the topics were not quite seen as two sides of the same coin. He noted that the comments received on draft-trammell-wire-image might indicate that the topics are more closely aligned than he originally thought. However, Ted said that draft-iab-path-signals is short enough to be read quickly on its own, and he is concerned that merging the two documents would muddy the waters.


Brian Trammell reported that he plans to post an updated version of draft-trammell-wire-image (as draft-iab-wire-image) that addresses the comments received during the community review period before the next IAB meeting.


Erik Nordmark and Mark Nottingham will write up their concerns about sending draft-iab-path-signals out for community review and send them to the IAB.


This topic will return to the IAB agenda on 2018-10-10.


### 6. Plenary Planning Program Update


The Plenary Planning Program will meet in Bangkok.


Melinda Shore will send an email to the current Program members about expanding the Program’s membership.


### 7. Public IAB Teleconferences


The IAB unanimously agreed to open its teleconferences to observers.


Ted Hardie will send a message to the community announcing that IAB teleconferences will be opened to observers.


### 8. Executive Session: Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group and the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session.


