
Minutes of the 2018-01-31 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Christian Huitema (incoming IAB)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore (incoming IAB)
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB about the upcoming IETF 101 BOF Coordination and IETF-IEEE 802 Coordination calls.


The IAB welcomed incoming members Christian Huitema and Melinda Shore.


An item on the editorial erratum reported on RFC 7841 was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Minutes


The minutes of the 10 January 2018 business meeting and the 17 January 2018 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Editorial Errata on RFC 7841


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to mark erratum 5248 on RFC 7841 as “Verified.” Robert Sparks will update the entry in the errata database and follow up with John Klensin, who reported the issue.


Once the erratum has been updated in the errata database, the IAB will need to update the boilerplate text at <https://www.iab.org/documents/headers-boilerplate/>.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Lee Howard reported that speakers are lined up for the IETF 101 plenary and that they are currently sorting out the travel funding details. He noted that the IAB might want to have a conversation at their retreat about funding travel for speakers versus finding local speakers or speakers who would already be attending the IETF meeting.


The IAB approved travel funding for the IETF 101 speakers. Ted Hardie will work offline to see if he can find another source of funding to supplement the IAB travel budget.


### 4. IAB Retreat


The IAB briefly discussed their 2018 retreat. The current proposal is to meet 25-27 April in Europe, including a joint day with the IESG on 25 April.


### 5. Updating IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode 7.0.0


Suzanne Woolf reported that Asmus Freytag is planning to resurrect an expired Internet-Draft (draft-freytag-troublesome-characters) that addresses some of the issues with Unicode code points that need special consideration.


### 6. Response to Liaison Statement on IPv6 Work Items


Lee Howard noted that it is difficult for the IAB to respond to the proposed work items when the document cannot be shared with the full IAB. He is currently reviewing the document; there may be parts that where responding would be helpful, particularly by providing pointers to some of the GEOPRIV WG documents. Gabriel Montenegro said that there may also be a relevant document in the 6LO WG. Lee will send a draft response to the IAB for review soon.


### 7. Consolidation


Jari Arkko sent draft text for a problem statement on consolidation out to the IAB for review. The IAB will discuss this further at their next meeting (7 February 2018).


### 8. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that plans for the 2018 Applied Networking Research Workshop are progressing. The Program Committee is putting together a budget for the workshop. Allison is working with the Secretariat to confirm a venue for the workshop during IETF 102 in Montreal.


### 9. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion. The IAB approved appointing Tim Wicinski to a two-year term on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group via an e-vote prior to this meeting. Cindy Morgan will send a notification to the IAB’s liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors, with a separate message to IETF-Announce.


### 10. IESG Slate


The IAB confirmed the IESG slate presented by the IETF NomCom via an e-vote prior to this meeting. Brian Trammell recused himself from the confirmation of Mirja Kuehlewind. Joe Hildebrand and Martin Thomson recused themselves from the confirmation of Adam Roach.


### 11. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed the timeline and messaging for the appointment of a liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors. Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the draft Call for Nominations text before the next IAB meeting.


