
Minutes of the 2018-04-11 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Jeff Tantsura


#### 1.2. Administrivia


An item on the ICANN Study Group on Root Zone Label Generation Rules was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Minutes


The following minutes remain under review review:


* 2018-03-07 Minutes
* 2018-03-18 Minutes
* 2018-03-19 Minutes
* 2018-03-22 Minutes
* 2018-04-04 Minutes


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB
9 April 2018

Topics:

I. Upcoming Policy Papers
Land-locked Developing Countries (LLDCs)
2018 Plenipotentiary Background Paper
Discussion Paper: IoT Security for Policy Makers
Africa Personal Data Protection and Privacy Guidelines
Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on Encryption and Lawful Access Report

II. Upcoming Submissions
IGF 2018 Call for Issues

III. Upcoming Engagements
Canadian Multistakeholder Process: Enhancing IoT Security
C20 Face to Face meeting
32nd Euro-IX Forum
eLAC 2020 Ministerial Conference
Arusha Women School of Internet Governance (AruWSIG)
African Internet Summit (AIS)
Cyber South School on Internet Governance
LACNIC
Dynamic Spectrum Alliance Meeting

IV. Highlights of Recent Activities
WSIS Forum 2018
Agreement signed by OAS and ISOC to promote the creation of Community Networks
Africa Region 2nd Preparatory Meeting for ITU PP-18
Tech Fellows Program for IETF 101

I. Upcoming Policy Papers

Land-locked Developing Countries (LLDCs)
This report was drafted in 2017 and the team plans to release in June in
tandem with the Central Asian IGF. A draft will be available for the
OMAC, Chapters, and partners to review and comment on by Mid-April.

2018 Plenipotentiary Background Paper
ISOC is a Sector Member of the ITU and will be attending Plenipotentiary
2018 as an observer. As part of our preparations we will have several
informational resources for our community. A background paper on
Plenipotentiary 2018 will be released 6 April.

Discussion Paper: IoT Security for Policy Makers
The Internet Society Discussion Paper: IoT Security for Policymakers
will be published in mid-April. The paper provides an introduction to
key considerations and challenges, and recommendations for policymakers
as they approach the area of IoT Security.

Africa Personal Data Protection and Privacy Guidelines
The African Union Commission and the Internet Society are finalizing the
drafting of the Africa Privacy Guidelines expected to be launched during
the Africa Internet Summit in May 2018 in Dakar, Senegal. A draft will
be available for review and comments for the community

Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on Encryption and Lawful
Access Report
The Internet Society and Chatham House will release the report from
their join Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on Encryption and
Lawful Access. The Roundtable brought together a wide range of experts
to identify nuances, areas for improvement, and break down the problem
into manageable pieces.

II. Upcoming Submissions

IGF 2018 Call for Issues
The IGF MAG is asking for issues of high interest to all stakeholders
across the world, in order to shape the IGF 2018 program in a more
focused and cohesive manner. That's an innovation in the IGF process and
everyone is invited to bring their voice to the help the IGF program
shaping!

III. Upcoming Engagements

Canadian Multistakeholder Process: Enhancing IoT Security
The Internet Society has partnered with Innovation, Science and Economic
Development, the Canadian Internet Registration Authority, CANARIE, and
CIPPIC to convene stakeholders in order to develop recommendations for a
set of norms/policy to secure the Internet of Things in Canada. The
first multistakeholder meeting in the year-long process will be held in
Ottawa on April 4, 2018. In these sessions, we will address two specific
thematic areas: consumer protection and network resilience. Mark Buell,
Jeff Wilbur and Olaf Kolkman will be speaking at this event.

C20 Face to Face meeting, 4-5 April, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Civil Society 20 is one of the seven Engagement Groups of the G20 that
brings together civil society organizations around the world to
contribute with recommendations to the G20 leaders discussions. Among
the key topics are Internet Access issues.

32nd Euro-IX Forum 16-17 April, Galway, Ireland
The European Internet Exchange Association (Euro-IX) gathers 83 IXPs
from around the world. It was formed in May 2001 with the intention to
develop, strengthen and improve the Internet Exchange Point (IXP)
community. A number of IXPs recognized a need to combine their resources
in order to coordinate technical standards, develop common procedures,
share and publish statistics and other useful information. This would in
turn give all interested parties a better insight into the world of
IXPs.

eLAC 2020 Ministerial Conference, 18-20 April, Cartagena, Colombia
eLAC is the WSIS regional follow up mechanism for policy dialogue to
meet the SDGs, operated by UN-ECLAC. The Ministerial conference is held
every 3 years to review the regional goals and the set the action plan
for the mechanism and respective working groups. The main outcome
expected for the meeting is the LAC Digital Agenda for 2020, including
the definition of the working groups for 2018-2020. Several side-events
are also being organized side-by-side with the meeting. Raquel Gatto and
Christian O'Flaherty will be attending.

Arusha Women School of Internet Governance (AruWSIG), 22 -23 April,
Arusha, Tanzania
Arusha Women School of Internet Governance will host a women and girls
focused IG capacity building event in Arusha, Tanzania from the 22nd of
April. ISOC Africa Regional Bureau is a partner to the event together
with Dot.africa, ICANNWiki and Localisation lab. The meeting intent to
build capacity of aspiring Internet Governance/policy women leaders
(organizers, speakers, and local content curators).

African Internet Summit (AIS) 29 April - 11 May, Dakar, Senegal
The Africa Internet Summit (AIS) is an annual, regional, multi-
stakeholder ICT conference. It is the pinnacle educational and business
ICT event in Africa where key players in the Internet industry can
interact with the global Internet community. Launched in The Gambia in
2012, the Summit consists of seminars, workshops, tutorials, conference
sessions, birds-of-a-feather (BOFs), and other forums for sharing ICT
knowledge within the African region..

Cyber South School on Internet Governance 30 April, Washington, DC
The eleventh edition of the South School on Internet Governance is
focusing on cybersecurity issues and will be hosted by the Organization
of American States (OAS). It aims to train new leaders primarily from
Latin America and Caribbean region in understanding the complexity
related with Internet Governance and its importance in the future of the
Internet. Kathy Brown has a keynote speech at the event. Sebastian
Bellagamba and Raquel Gatto will be attending.

LACNIC 29, 30 April - 4 May, Panama City, Panama
LACNIC 29 is one of the most important Internet events in Latin America
and the Caribbean that brings together experts and representatives of
academia, civil society, the private sector, governments, and the
telecommunications industry.

Dynamic Spectrum Alliance Meeting London, 1-3 May United Kingdom
Members of the CN team are likely to attend this meeting as its scope
has broadened to include a variety of spectrum issues (not just TVWS).
Many governments and companies attend.

IV. Highlights of Recent Activities

WSIS Forum 2018
ISOC's CN and PubPol teams collaborated with APC on two panels on
community networks during the WSIS Forum in Geneva (19-23 March). The
panels included updates from community networks from the "field", and a
focus on policy-regulatory changes to help support CN development and
growth.

Agreement signed by OAS and ISOC to promote the creation of Community
Networks
The General Secretariat of the Organization of American States (OAS),
through its Inter-American Telecommunication Commission (CITEL), and the
Internet Society (ISOC) to promote the creation of new community
networks that provide access to rural and remote areas of the Americas.

Africa Region 2nd Preparatory Meeting for ITU PP-18
The 2nd African Prep Meeting for ITU PP-18, was convened in Abuja,
Nigeria, from 13-15 March 2018 and attended by 170 participants. The aim
of the meeting was to receive updates on the actions of the 3 working
groups.

Tech Fellows Program for IETF 101
The ISOC Tech Fellows Program for IETF 101 London was delivered
successfully. There were 10 Fellows from 9 countries, including
Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, Ethiopia, India, Palestine,
Nigeria, and Serbia. A number of fellows presented/participated in
working groups or other activities.
- Jose Ignacio Alvarez-Hamelin (Argentina) presented a draft on
'Advanced Unidirectional Route Assessment' in the IPPM working group.
- Marcelo Santos (Brazil) discussed his role in the organization of the
IETF Workshop to be held at the 2018 Conference of the Brazil
Information Society. He also presented his ideas on 'SDN Placement
Challenges' to individuals in the NMRG.
- Diego Dujovne (Colombia) presented 2 drafts to the 6TISCH working
group. One of them involved information element encapsulation and the
other addressed experimental scheduling functions.
- Tiru Reddy Konda (India) presented 2 drafts to the DOTS working group.
A draft that he co-authored in the DPRIVE working group on 'Usage
Profiles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS' became RFC 8310.

Alvaro Retana of the IESG was present for meetings with the Fellows, and
discussed several aspects of the IETF, including providing advice on how
to build and expand communities of practice, increasing inclusiveness in
the IETF, and how to become more actively involved in the development of
drafts and RFCs. Fred Baker also addressed the Fellows with some context
on the history of the IETF and his work supporting the Fellowship
program.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–



```
IRTF Report for April 2018
(submitted April 10, 2018)

ANRW
The budget of ANRW was submitted to ACM and their sponsoring
contribution was confirmed. The Chairs, steering committee, and others
worked hard to promote the Call for Papers (due April 20). Planning
Note: the IRTF will not use Monday meeting slots in Montreal to
accommodate the ANRW

Status of Proposed and Potential Research Groups
​Proposed Path Aware Networking RG (PANRG) - the participants in the
meeting hummed loudly in favor continuing with this RG. The IRSG will
complete discussion on April 17.

The Quantum Internet Proposed RG is developing a charter now, on the
qirg@irtf.org mailing list. There are currently two co-chairs, Rod van
Meter (Keio University) and Stephanie Wehner (TU Delft), and there may
be a third co-chair to specialize in the hardware aspects of the applied
internet research.

There are now co-chair candidates working on the charter for the
potential Privacy Enhancements Applied Research Group (PEARG) and there
will soon be an mailing list announcement for discussion.

Upcoming Interim Meetings
4/24/18 - NMRG (collocated with NOMS Conference, Taipei)
4/24/18 - NFVRG (needs to be announced)

IRTF Documents Status
- RFC 8316 published: draft-irtf-nmrg-autonomic-sla-violation-detection ​ ​
- draft-irtf-cfrg-xmss-hash-based-signatures - RFC-Editor queue​,
Informational​
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-taxonomy - Conflict review complete,
RFC publication requested
- draft-nir-cfrg-rfc7539bis - Conflict review complete, waiting for
(delayed) Expert Review in order to get IANA OK
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics - IRTF chair reviewing revision prior
to requesting conflict review, Experimental
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnmessages - IRTF chair reviewing revision prior to
requesting conflict review, Experimental
- draft-irtf-nfvrg-gaps-network-virtualization - IRTF chair reviewing
revision prior to requesting conflict review, Informational
- draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-seccons - IRSG Poll in progress
- draft-irtf-cfrg-re-keying - RGLC ended
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–


### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I. Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)

Uniform Board Member Integrity Screening Process
https://www.icann.org/public-comments/board-integrity-
screening-2018-03-02-en
End: 17 Apr 2018 23:59 UTC

Draft Project Plan for the Proposed Name Collision Analysis Project
(NCAP)
https://www.icann.org/public-comments/reserve-fund-
replenishment-2018-03-06-en
End: 18 Apr 2018 23:59 UTC

II. Topics that could be relevant
==================================

Ongoing activities:

Namespace issues
----------------
The SSAC has answered the board's request for a project proposal on
namespace collisions (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/reserve-
fund-replenishment-2018-03-06-en). The SSAC is asking for public comment
and the proposal, which is a new way of operation for SSAC. The ICANN
board met with the SSAC at the Puerto Rico meeting and discussed with
the SSAC on the topic. SSAC and the board will continue the discussion
on this topic.

GDPR
----
ICANN has published a blog today about the current status with the GDPR
(https://www.icann.org/news/blog/data-protection-privacy-issues-update-
an-icann-update-most-frequently-asked-questions). ICANN has now
published an FAQ (https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/data-
protection-privacy-faqs-10apr18-en.pdf) in addition to the interim model
(https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/gdpr-compliance-interim-
model-08mar18-en.pdf). ICANN is still inviting thoughts on the matter on
e-mail to gdpr@icann.org.

III. (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN board retreat, 11th-13th May, 2018
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


Jonne Soininen reported that the ICANN Board has changed their timeline for incoming Board members so that incoming Board members will begin observing in September rather than May. As such, the person the IAB appoints as the new liaison to the Board will not have any obligations for the May ICANN board retreat or the June ICANN meeting.


Alissa Cooper noted that the IAB has received an inquiry about ICANN’s interim GDPR plan and RDAP. Alissa, Ted Hardie, and Brian Trammell will review ICANN’s GDPR plan and draft a response from the IAB.


#### 2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 11 April 2018

SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the March 2018 monthly
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal
times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics

- The 2018 SLA between the IAOC and ICANN has been approved and has been
signed by both parties.

Other News:

- Working on and inventory of GDPR related information in Protocol
Parameter registries.

IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:

None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE

- IETF 101 - The RSE met with several of the -bis authors, developers,
and the RPC representative for the RFC Format project. Attendees
included: Henrik Levkowetz, Jim Schaad, Julian Reschke, Paul Hoffman,
Nevil Brownlee, Alice Russo, and Heather Flanagan. Each developer
offered an update on the status of his tools, and the team discussed
both testing and updating the -bis documents that describe the
requirements for the v3 format. The team also assigned write ups for
FAQ-style guidance for authors on how to use new v3 features.
- Style Guide - a revised draft of the RFC Style Guide has been posted
for discussion. The changes in this version focus on reference format
updates, in particular adding code repository guidance and changing
Internet Draft terminology from “Work in Progress” to “Internet
Draft”.

RPC

- https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
- PGTE increased significantly (40%) during March, so the RPC expects
the processing times in Q2 to be impacted while they work through the
queue. As a reminder, Tier 2 metrics require 50% of documents
published within the period having an RFC Editor-controlled time that
ads up to 12 weeks or fewer. For more information, please see the
reports page.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


The IAB has a tech chat scheduled for 9 May 2018 on ideas for future plenaries.


Brian Trammell reported that the plenary queue page on the IAB wiki <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/Plenary\_Queue> has been updated, and asked the IAB to take a look and provide comments.


### 4. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin noted that she would like to coordinate with the IESG so that the sessions on the ANRW agenda do not overlap with any relevant Working Group sessions at IETF 102.


### 5. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed potential agenda topics for their 2018 retreat. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will put together a first draft of the agenda.


### 6. The shine of the Internet


Discussion of “The shine has gone off the Internet” Program was deferred to email.


### 7. draft-hardie-path-signal


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-hardie-path-signale on the IAB stream.


### 8. draft-trammell-wire-image


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-trammell-wire-image on the IAB stream.


### 9. IDN Implementation Guidelines


Ted Hardie will send a message to ICANN letting them know that the IAB has no further comment on the IDN implementation guidelines.


### 10. Community Coordination Group Appointment


The IAB approved the timeline and messaging for the appointment to the Community Coordination Group. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations on 16 April 2018.


### 11. ICANN Study Group on Root Zone Label Generation Rules


The IAB appointed Alireza Saleh to the ICANN Study Group on Root Zone Label Generation Rules. Ted Hardie will follow up with the candidates.


### 12. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the ICANN Board Liaison appointment in an executive session.


