
Minutes of the 2018-08-01 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Brian Trammell


##### Guests:


* Constance Bommelaer
* Carl Gahnberg


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan noted that there was not a quorum of IAB members on the call, so any items requiring a formal decision will have to be followed up on by email or at a future meeting.


### 2. Tech Chat: Global Internet Report on Consolidation


Constance Bommelaer and Carl Gahnberg joined the IAB to discuss the Internet Society’s Global Internet Report for 2018, which will focus on Internet consolidation. The report is still being written, but will look at three layers of the Internet economy (Application/Service Economy, Access Services, and Service Infrastructure), and look at possible implications on the future of the Internet.


As Internet consolidation has been of ongoing interest to the IAB, Constance Bommelaer suggested that they might want to have another conversation on this topic when there is more advanced text ready for the Global Internet Report. In the meantime, Karen O’Donoghue will liaise between the IAB and the Internet Society on any issues related to consolidation that may be of interest to both groups.


### 3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes remain under review:


* 2018-06-27 IAB Business Meeting
* 2018-07-03 IAB Business Meeting
* 2018-07-15 IAB Business Meeting
* 2018-07-16 IAB Business Meeting
* 2018-07-19 IAB Business Meeting


Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote to approve the outstanding minutes.


### 4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 5. Future Tech Plenaries


Allison Mankin reported that the Plenary Planning Program has a meeting planned in the near future and is looking at opportunities for IETF 103.


### 6. Public IAB Agendas


Ted Hardie noted that the IAB received suggestions during IETF 102 about making the IAB agenda or parts of the IAB teleconferences public.


Alissa Cooper said that making the IESG formal telechats public has not had a discernible effect on the IESG’s discussions, but recognized that it would be slightly more challenging for the IAB given the number of sensitive discussions the IAB has regarding various appointments. However, that concern could be mitigated by having a standard break in the agenda between a public session and an executive session.


Several people were in favor of trying an experiment, while others expressed concerns that the amount of discussion that would have to be taken in executive session might render the public session less useful.


Given that there was not quorum present on the call, this discussion will continue via email and come back to the agenda of a future meeting.


### 7. Other Business


There was no other business and the meeting was adjourned.


