
Minutes of the 2018-05-16 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Brian Trammell
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the poll to select a timevfor the IETF 102 BOF coordination call with the IESG.


Ted Hardie reported that a presentation from the RSAAC chairs will be added to the joint IAB/IESG agenda at IETF 102.


Alissa Cooper asked to add an item on IGF to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 9 May 2018 tech chat and business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Allison Mankin has scheduled a tech chat with Deirdre Mulligan for 6 June 2018.


Jari Arkko reported that Charlie Stross will not be available to speak at an IETF technical plenary this year, and asked the IAB if they wanted to proceed on the same topic with a different speaker. The IAB discussed ways to reformulate the topic. Discussions will continue in the Plenary Planning Program.


### 3. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that the draft agenda for the workshop will be out in a few days.


### 4. Privacy and Security Program Membership


The IAB approved adding Chris Wood to the Privacy and Security Program.


### 5. Independent Stream


The IAB discussed the future of the Independent Stream and how to frame that discussion with the community.


Martin Thomson noted that the conversation was not about closing the Independent Stream, but about trying to find ways to remove some of the confusion about what counts as a standard and what documents are actually produced by the IETF.


Jari Arkko added he does not want to see publication of documents made more difficult or add obstacles to publishing research.


After the discussion, Martin Thomson, Ted Hardie, Melinda Shore, and Suzanne Woolf agreed to write up a BOF proposal for IETF 102 to discuss an experiment with the community for publishing IAB, IRTF, and IS documents with an identifier other than “RFC.” A new mailing list will be created to go with the BOF proposal.


### 6. IGF


Alissa Cooper asked the IAB for input about IETF sessions at IGF. Jari Arkko suggested a technical topic about consolidation or better data protection. Jari will send email to the IAB with more details.


