
Minutes of the 2018-06-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Several new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2018-05-16 Minutes (business meeting)
* 2018-05-30 Minutes (tech chat & business meeting)
* 2018-06-07 Minutes (tech chat & business meeting)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB 
13 June 2018

Topics:

I. Recent Policy Papers
	Encryption and Lawful Access Primer
	APAC Internet Policy Insights
II. Other
	Survey: 2018 Global Internet Report

************

I. Recent Policy Papers

Encryption and Lawful Access Primer
Prior to the “Considerations Regarding Encryption and Exceptional 
Access” briefing in Washington, DC on 12 June, a two-page primer was 
released to provide a high-level explanation of encryption. 
(https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/doc/2018/encryption-brief/)

APAC Internet Policy Insights
The APAC Bureau has launched its annual APAC Internet Policy Insights 
survey, this year focusing on IoT security. The survey is on its 5th 
year, and is conducted online through Survey Monkey. It will run until 
30 June. Key findings will be summarized in a report which will be made 
available on the ISOC website.

II. Other

Survey: 2018 Global Internet Report
Last year, the Internet Society published a comprehensive study to 
better understand the forces of change that will shape the Internet over 
the next five to seven years: The 2017 Global Internet Report: Paths to 
Our Digital Future. We now want to work with you on a new report that 
takes a closer look at one of those forces and how it may impact the 
future, namely Consolidation in the Internet Economy. Take our survey, 
available in English, French and Spanish,  tell us your perspective and 
what you foresee for the future of the Internet in the next five years.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–



```
I.  Public Comments needing attention (only highlights)
=======================================================
(All public comment processes: https://www.icann.org/public-
comments#open-public)


Release for Registration one ..COM Domain Name with a Single-Character 
Label: O.COM
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/o-com-single-char-2018-05-10-en)
End: 20 June 2018

Short-Term Options to Adjust the Timeline for Specific Reviews
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/specific-reviews-short-term-
timeline-2018-05-14-en)
End: 6 July 2018

Draft Community Travel Support Guidelines
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/travel-support-
guidelines-2018-05-30-en)
End: 16 July 2018

Long-Term Options to Adjust the Timeline of Reviews
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/reviews-long-term-
timeline-2018-05-14-en)
End: 20 July 2018

Open Data Initiative Datasets and Metadata
(https://www.icann.org/public-comments/odi-datasets-metadata-2018-06-11-
en)
End: 27 July 2018


II.  Topics that could be relevant
==================================

Ongoing activities: 

Namespace issues
----------------
The SSAC has answered the board's request for a project proposal on 
namespace collisions (https://www.icann.org/public-comments/reserve-
fund-replenishment-2018-03-06-en) as reported the last time. The board 
had a meeting with SSAC and the Board and the SSAc will continue to work 
together on the proposal.

GDPR
——
GDPR has kept the board, the ICANN organization and the community 
relatively busy. The board adopted a temporary specification on the gTLD 
registration data (https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2018-05-17-
en). The board spent most of its Vancouver workshop on the matter. 


III.  (If relevant) upcoming meeting topics of importance
=========================================================

ICANN policy meeting, 25th-28th June, 2018
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Jonne Soininen–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 13 June 2018
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for the April 2018 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
   
- A new Director of Technical Services, IANA has been hired and will 
start July 1.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
- None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE
* Stream experiment
The RFC Series Editor has been actively engaged in the Independent 
Submission Editorial Board and the new rfcplusplus BoF mailing list 
discussing the proposed stream experiment. There are significant 
concerns with the experiment as initially described, and further active 
discussion is expected on the topic.

* Format update
Tool development and testing continues. Current focus is on testing 
xmldiff and on developing the text publication formatter. Nevil 
Brownlee, Jim Schaad, and the Tools Committee are discussing one 
possible gap in the SVG profile described in RFC 7996, based on Tiny 
SVG, where markers (commonly used for arrowheads) are not supported. 
There are other ways to create arrowheads, but they may require some 
education in the community (or adjustment in the SVG checking tool) to 
happen based on the current profile.

RPC
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
See the reports page for the latest information on the SLA.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Melinda Shore reported that Niels ten Oever has been invited to the next Plenary Planning Program call to discuss potential topics and speakers for IETF 105.


Jari Arkko reported that he has not had any luck scheduling tech chats with science fiction authors, and asked to close that action item. The IAB agreed.


### 4. RSSAC Governance Documents


Ted Hardie reported that the RSSAC governance document have been approved and should be published later this week. He asked the IAB to review those documents before the IAB and IESG meet with the RSSAC liaison on Sunday at IETF 102.


### 5. IAB response to NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities


Suzanne Woolf reported that the NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities included questions about privacy and security, in addition to the questions about IANA and Internet governance. Suzanne Woolf will take the IANA portion of the NOI to the IANA Program for input. Martin Thomson will take the privacy and security portion of the NOI to the Privacy and Security Program for input.


### 6. IAB agenda at IETF 102


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 102.


Alissa Cooper noted that the agenda for the joint IAB/IESG meeting on Sunday is already pretty full, and asked if people would be available to start the meeting an hour earlier than normal. No one objected to that idea.


Ted Hardie suggested that the IAB might want to review the Crypto Forum Research Group as their IRTF review at IETF 102. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Allison Mankin to find out if the CFRG chairs will be available.


Cindy Morgan noted that some of the IAB’s agenda time at IETF 102 might be devoted to interviewing RSOC candidates.


### 7. Applied Networking Research Workshop


This agenda item was deferred because Allison Mankin was unable to join the meeting.


### 8. IAB approval of draft-iab-marnew-report


The IAB approved draft-iab-marnew-report for publication as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send the approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 9. July 3 vs July 11 teleconference


The IAB agreed to have their final teleconference before IETF 102 on Tuesday, 3 July 2018. Cindy Morgan will set up a WebEx meeting and update the IAB calendar accordingly.


### 10. Community Coordination Group (CCG) Appointment


Cindy Morgan reported that the call for community feedback on the candidate for the Community Coordination Group (CCG) has been sent.


### 11. RSOC Appointment


Martin Thomson, Melinda Shore, Alissa Cooper, and Christian Huitema agreed to participate in the team that will interview RSOC candidates at IETF 102.


### 12. Shining of the Internet and asymmetry brainstorm


Christian Huitema sent email to the IAB asking them to brainstorm about asymmetry in regards to the Internet Shine Program before the IAB discusses the Program description at IETF 102.


