
Minutes of the 2018-12-05 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Gabriel Montenegro


##### Observers:


* S. Moonesamy


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that the item on the update to the IANA Unicode tables was removed from the agenda because the Last Call on the relevant document was withdrawn.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The IAB agreed to change their process for approving meeting minutes. Minutes will now be considered approved two weeks after they are submitted for review as long as there is one “yes” and no objections.


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2018-10-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-10-10)
* 2018-11-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-21)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2018-11-28 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-28)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. CIPE Workshop


Ted Hardie and Christian Huitema reported that they are working to re-scope the CIPE Workshop call for papers.


### 3. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that there were no new updates on the ESCAPE Workshop.


### 4. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that the Plenary Planning Program is working on a privacy-related plenary topic.


Ted Hardie noted that if the IAB plans to bring in speakers from outside the regular IETF community, they may want to start thinking about finding sponsorships to fund travel for those speakers.


### 5. draft-iab-wire-image and draft-iab-path-signals


Brian Trammell asked that draft-iab-wire-image be put on the IAB agenda for 2018-12-19 to approve for publication.


Ted Hardie reported that he plans to post a new revision of draft-iab-path-signals that incorporates the comments received during the community review period once the review period ends.


### 6. LLC Board Meeting


Ted Hardie reported that the IETF LLC Board will meet 12-13 December 2018, and said the IAB should let him know if they have any messages that he should carry forward to the LLC Board.


### 7. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, the ISOC Board of Trustees, and the IRTF Chair in an executive session.


