
Minutes of the 2018-08-22 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Christian Huitema
* Brian Trammell


#### 1.2. Administrivia


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 1 August 2018 and the 8 August 2018 business meetings remain under review.


The following minutes were approved by e-vote prior to the start of the teleconference:


* 27 June 2018
* 3 July 2018
* 15 July 2018
* 16 July 2018
* 19 July 2018


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Melinda Shore reported that the Plenary Planning Program is trying to schedule a tech chat with Alastair Berg on decentralized identity governance.


Melinda Shore noted that the Program still has a list of potential speakers to follow up with on access controls.


### 3. The Assistance and Access Bill 2018


Mark Nottingham reported that he and Martin Thomson attended meetings in Canberra earlier this week discussing Australia’s Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Bill 2018. The Australian government is soliciting feedback on the bill by 10 September 2018. Since the bill is intended to assist law enforcement with some of the challenges posed by encryption, Mark suggested that the IAB might want to submit comments.


Jari Arkko noted that the IAB should be careful about providing specific advice to any one government when more general statements can be made (e.g. the IAB Statement on Internet Confidentiality). Mark Nottingham replied that there is a chance that this bill might be used as a template for other governments.


After discussion, the IAB agreed that drafting comments on the bill would be worthwhile. Alissa Cooper noted that the IAB should coordinate with ISOC, in case they are making similar efforts. Mark Nottingham agreed to draft text for the IAB to review by 17 August 2018.


Alissa Cooper asked if the IAB had a sense of where the academic community currently is on the idea of enabling law enforcement as a research question. Allison Mankin said that she thinks it is a useful angle to explore, but that she does not think the academic community is currently looking at this. Alissa said that she would continue thinking about the issue.


### 4. Public IAB Agendas


The IAB agreed to make their meeting agendas public. Cindy Morgan and Ted Hardie will work out the details on how to make that happen and send an announcement to the community.


The IAB discussed making the non-executive session portions of IAB teleconferences public. Ted Hardie noted that the IAB will need to decide how to handle meetings with non-IAB guest speakers (e.g. tech chats), as well as clarifying the guidelines on what sorts of things belong in executive session. Ted Hardie will write up a proposal on how to open up IAB teleconferences to the public and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 5. draft-iab-iotsi-workshop


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-iotsi-workshop as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 6. IDN Tables Update


Ted Hardie reported that IANA has been unable to update the IDNA Parameter Registry because they are waiting for approval from Patrik Faltstrom, the expert reviewer, who was waiting on the outcome of the Internationalization Review Procedures (i18nrp) BOF at IETF 102. The BOF concluded that an Internationalization Directorate should be formed.


Suzanne Woolf will follow up with Patrik Faltstrom on updating the IDNA Parameters Registry.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed the IETF appointment to the ICANN NomCom in an executive session.


### 8. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


This discussed was deferred to email and the next IAB business meeting due to time constraints.


