
Minutes of the 2018-11-08 IAB Business Meeting 
Bangkok, Thailand
-----------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (Internet Society Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson


#### Remote via WebEx:


* Robert Sparks
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Guests:


* Mat Ford (Internet Society)
* Olaf Kolkman (Internet Society)
* Dirk Kutscher (DINRG Chair)
* Sally Wentworth (Internet Society)


#### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Brian Trammell


### 2. IRTF Review: Decentralized Internet Infrastructure Research Group 
(DINRG)


Dirk Kutscher and Melinda Shore updated the IAB on the current activities of the Decentralized Internet Infrastructure Research Group (DINRG). The research group was chartered to investigate open research issues in decentralizing infrastructure services. Its objectives include:


* Investigating use cases and requirements with respect to implementing them in a distributed manner
* Discussing and assessing solutions with a focus on Internet-level deployment issues such as scalability, performance, and security
* Developing and documenting technical solutions and best practices
* Developing tools and metrics to identify scaling issues and to identify missing components
* Identifying future work items for the IETF


DINRG work relates to IETF work on routing, secure delegated mappings, and enabling secure communications without centralized trust anchors.


DINRG’s first meeting as an approved Research Group was at IETF 103, but they met as a proposed Research Group at the previous three IETF meetings. They also held an interim meeting at the 2018 NDSS Symposium and are planning to hold a DIN workshop at the 2019 NDSS Symposium. DINRG has had participation from a good mix of academics, startups, bigger vendors, and telcos.


Recent DINRG topics include:


* Stellar Consensus Protocol (SCP)
* Delegated Mapping on top of consensus layer
* Decentralized IP address allocation and RKPI
* Chainspace
* Coconut: selective disclosure credential scheme


Future plans for DINRG include:


* Connecting research on Distributed Systems, Decentralization, and Internet Evolution
* Looking at technologies, use cases and first proposals on decentralized mapping, decentralized RKPI, etc.
* Working on experimental/informational specifications, e.g.,
	+ Consensus protocols of broader applicability
	+ Describing applicability and specific proposals for applying DIN technology to Internet use cases
	+ Potentially developing/selecting suitable gossip protocols


Jari Arkko observed that there are many potential applications whose needs might differ. Melinda Shore replied that there has been a lot of activity around self-sovereign identity over the past year.


Erik Nordmark asked if anyone was looking at the links between consolidation and economics. Melinda Shore replied that there has been quite a bit of interest in that.


### 3. Readout from ITU Plenipotentiary Conference


Mat Ford and Sally Wentworth from the Internet Society joined the IAB to give an update on the 2018 ITU Plenipotentiary Conference.


The Internet Society Background Paper on ITU Plenipotentiary 2018 is  

available at <<https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/doc/2018/internet-society-background-paper-on-itu-plenipotentiary-2018/>>.


### 4. Executive Session: Plenary Planning Program Membership


The IAB discussed the membership of the Plenary Planning Program in an executive session.


