
Minutes of the 2018-11-21 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Erik Nordmark
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Alexa Morris


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


There was not a quorum of IAB members present on the call, so any items requiring a formal decision will require follow-up by e-vote.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


Cindy Morgan sent out an e-vote to approve the following meeting minutes prior to the start of the teleconference:


* 2018-10-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-10-10)
* 2018-10-24 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-10-24)
* 2018-11-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-05)
* 2018-11-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-06)
* 2018-11-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-11-08)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Change in Handling Updates to the xml2rfcv3 Spec and Code


Heather Flanagan reported that development will be decoupled from updating the RFC format specifications in order to get the code out before the contract ends at the end of 2018. Henrik Levkowetz will produce a report to show where there are discrepancies between the code and the specification.


The RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC) will discuss whether the code should be changed to match the specifications, or the specification should be changed to match the code.


Robert Sparks added that the outstanding contract items are the PDF-A viewer and updates to the idnits tool.


### 3. CIPE Workshop


This item was deferred to the next IAB teleconference so that Christian Huitema and/or Brian Trammell could participate in the discussion.


### 4. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the ESCAPE Workshop Program Committee has decided to postpone the workshop until at least late February because they are still looking for a location to host the workshop. They are looking for a location somewhere in the media world or at a journalism school. Ted Hardie suggested that they may also want to look into hosting the workshop at the Internet Society offices in Virginia.


### 5. draft-iab-path-signals


Ted Hardie reported that an updated version of draft-iab-path-signals was posted earlier this week. Ted will work with Cindy Morgan to send out an e-vote on whether the document is ready for community review.


### 6. Testimony on Australian Assistance and Access Bill


Martin Thomson reported that he attended the recent public hearing on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill. Much of the testimony focused on how the proposed legislation would break encryption in ways that are undesirable.


### 7. ENUM processing/ITU submission


Ted Hardie reported that he sent out the current version of the proposed updates to the IAB Instructions for operation of the e164.arpa domain. Ted and Alissa Cooper volunteered to review the document and suggest next steps to the IAB. Ted will also send email to the IAB list soliciting a third volunteer to review the text.


### 8. Plenary Planning Program Update


This item was deferred to the next IAB teleconference so that Melinda Shore could participate in the discussion.


### 9. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, the ISOC Board of Trustees, and the IRTF Chair in an executive session.


