
Minutes of the 2018-09-05 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Ted Hardie asked to remove draft-hardie-path-signals from the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


Cindy Morgan will send out ballots to approve the following minutes via e-vote:


* 2018-08-01 business meeting
* 2018-08-08 business meeting
* 2018-08-22 business meeting


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Melinda Shore reported that the Plenary Planning Program is looking at doing a topic on decentralized infrastructure for the plenary in Bangkok.


### 3. The Assistance and Access Bill 2018


The IAB discussed the proposed text for the IAB comments on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill 2018. Mark Nottingham will update the text based on the feedback received and send it out to the IAB for an e-vote.


### 4. Public IAB Teleconferences


The IAB discussed a proposal for public IAB teleconferences and how to balance the desire for transparency with the need to have certain discussions (e.g. about personnel appointments and liaisons with other organizations) under confidentiality.


Melinda Shore suggested that the IAB gather more data to analyze how making portions of the IAB teleconferences public would affect how the IAB does its work.


Ted Hardie suggested putting the narrative notes from the three most recent IAB teleconferences up in the private wiki and having IAB members mark whether each topic should have been discussed in a public session or a confidential session. The IAB agreed that this would be a good way to gather more data. The IAB will also keep this in mind when putting together agendas for their future meetings. The IAB will then review all of this information and continue the discussion about making portions of the IAB teleconferences public.


### 5. Shine Program


The IAB discussed the proposed Shine Program. Christian Huitema observed that there are several topics being discussed under the “Shine” umbrella, but that some of them are not problems that the IAB can solve.


Brian Trammell said that he and Jari Arkko are still working on an internet-draft about consolidation.


Ted Hardie noted that the topic is bigger than just consolidation.


Christian Huitema agreed and said that “shine” is currently not well defined. He said that he sees four categories that fall under this:


* The perceived loss of privacy.
* The asymmetric relation between users and platforms.
* The lack of trust on information.
* The ossification of the Internet.


Christian Huitema took an action to write up those four categories and suggest where the topics should be discussed.


### 6. draft-hardie-path-signals


This item was removed from the agenda at the beginning of the teleconference.


### 7. draft-trammell-wire-image


The IAB agreed to send draft-trammell-wire-image out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send out the community review message.


### 8. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


The IAB discussed a proposal for a workshop on Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE). The IAB agreed to proceed with plans for the workshop, and to approach the W3C Technical Advisory Group (TAG) about co-hosting the workshop.


Mark Nottingham will update the workshop proposal based on the feedback received from the IAB and take it to the TAG for further discussion.


### 9. ICANN NomCom Liaison Appointment


The IAB reappointed Ole Jacobsen to the ICANN NomCom for 2018-2019.


### 10. Executive Session: RSOC Appointment


The IAB approved appointing Sarah Banks, Tony Hansen, Adam Roach, and Peter Saint-Andre to the RSOC.


Christian Huitema will replace Martin Thomson as one of the IAB representatives to the RSOC.


