
Minutes of the 2018-03-07 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Christian Huitema (incoming IAB)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Melinda Shore (incoming IAB)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reported that those who booked rooms for the IAB Retreat should be receiving their hotel confirmations very soon.


#### 1.3. Minutes


The minutes of the 2018-02-28 tech chat and business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell reported that the technical plenary panelists will have a conference call on 8 March 2018 to coordinate with each other.


Lee Howard and Brian Trammell took an action to update the IAB wiki to provide process guidance on organizing technical plenaries.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 101


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 101.


Mat Ford will find out if Kathy Brown is available to join the IAB’s Monday breakfast meeting in London.


An item on IASA 2.0 was added to the IAB’s Thursday meeting agenda.


### 4. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that the budget is nearly done; she is just waiting to confirm the meeting room rental costs. Alissa Cooper suggested that since the workshop will happen in an IETF breakout room during regular session time in lieu of IRTF Research Group meetings that the meeting space should be free. Allison will follow up with the Secretariat.


### 5. Program Intros


In preparation for an agenda item at IETF 101 to discuss IAB Program leadership, each of the IAB Program Leads gave a brief description of their respective Programs.


More information about IAB Programs is available at <<https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/>>.


### 6. Executive Session: IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode


The IAB discussed discussed updating the IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode in an executive session.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed the ICANN Board Liaison appointment in an executive session.


