
Minutes of the 2018-07-03 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* None


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Items on draft-iab-iotsi-workshop and a potential liaison response to SG/2 were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 27 June 2018 meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries (Plenary Planning Program) – 10 mins


There were no updates on future technical plenaries.


### 3. IAB response to NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities


Jari Arkko reported that he has some bullet points that the IAB can use in their response to the Internet governance portions of the NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities.


Alissa Cooper suggested that the response on the privacy and security questions should include pointers to IETF and IAB documents like RFC 7258 and the IAB statement on Internet Confidentiality.


### 4. Preparation for discussion on Shine of the Internet Program


Christian Huitema thanked the IAB for the discussion on the mailing list. He and Brian Trammell will coordinate on a presentation for the Shine discussion on Sunday at IETF 102.


### 5. IAB agenda at IETF 102


The IAB reviewed their agenda for IETF 102.


Alissa Cooper asked if the IAB would need time to discuss the outcome of the rfcplusplus BOF before the plenary, noting that there is currently not a meeting scheduled.


Brian Trammell said that some of the time reserved for the Plenary Planning Program lunch at IETF 102 could be given up for the rfcplusplus discussion if needed. Ted Hardie asked the IAB to reserve that time on their calendars in case an additional meeting has to be scheduled.


### 6. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that the IRTF will pay for Meetecho to record the workshop. Allison is scheduling a meeting during IETF 102 to meet with Alissa Cooper and Alexa Morris to discuss the allocation of resources between IETF and IRTF.


### 7. IANA Naming Function Review Team (IFR)


Ted Hardie reported that the IAB has been invited to appoint a liaison to the IANA Naming Function Review Team (IFR).


Alissa Cooper said that during the IANAPLAN WG discussions, the WG agreed to not participate in the IFR.


The IAB agreed with that position. Alissa Cooper will send a pointer with the outcome of the IANAPLAN discussion to Ted Hardie. Ted will draft a response to the ICANN request for a liaison to the IFR.


### 8. draft-iab-iotsi-workshop


The IAB agreed to review draft-iab-iotsi-workshop before the Sunday IAB meeting at IETF 102. Cindy Morgan will add an item to that agenda to decide whether the document is ready for community review.


### 9. Potential Liaison Response to SG/2


The IAB agreed on the draft text for a potential liaison response to SG/2. Alissa Cooper will send the text to the IESG for review and approval; once that is done, Ted and Alissa will ask Scott Mansfield to send the liaison to SG/2 on behalf of the IAB and IESG.


### 10. Other business


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to follow the discussions on the rfcplusplus list.


