
Minutes of the 2018-02-07 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Joe Hildebrand
* Lee Howard
* Christian Huitema (incoming IAB)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Melinda Shore (incoming IAB)
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)


##### Guests:


* Jane Coffin
* Steve Song
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan asked IAB members to fill out the page on the wiki indicating which nights they will need hotel rooms for the IAB retreat. Ted Hardie noted that a new liaison to the IESG will be chosen in London, and whoever takes on that role will also need to stay for the IESG portion of the retreat week.


Joe Hildebrand reported that he sent a message to the IAB list to start off the IAB Chair selection process for 2018-2019.


### 2. Tech Chat: Developments in Spectrum Change and the Last Mile


Steve Song joined the IAB to talk about to discuss the ways that developments in spectrum change how the last mile works. He noted that it was not only changes in the spectrum that have had an impact; the spread of fiber-optic cable over the past decade has had a huge effect on the growth of the Internet. Prior to the first undersea fiber-optic cable to sub-Saharan Africa in 2009, all access was via satellite, which limited the applications that could be used.


Fiber-optic infrastructure has allowed local ISPs to develop. There has been a boom in wifi networks in sub-Saharan Africa over the past 24 months. Combining fiber and wifi provides great opportunities; there is some very powerful infrastructure in the unlicensed band, but there is a limited amount of spectrum available. Large mobile network operators are eager to gain access to new spectrum, but the regulators are struggling to find ways to make the spectrum available in a timely and fair way. Spectrum auctions have ended with no bids because the reserve prices were too high, or with the operator who won the auction bidding so high on the spectrum that they didn’t have resources left to actually use it.


Ted Hardie asked if the reserve price for spectrum options was initially set so high because countries were expecting international interests to bid. Steve Song replied that optimism for international investment was part of it; they also expected the auctions to provide a great windfall for their treasuries.


Christian Huitema asked Steve Song if he thinks there is something the IETF should be doing in this domain. Steve replied that everyone should be speaking out about spectrum because it is fundamental to enable access for all. A lack of affordable access to the network is the biggest threat to network neutrality. Spectrum issues are challenging, as they involve engineering, economics, and politics. Steve said that the IETF weighing in on the issue could have a real influence. Jane Coffin added that the GAIA RG has been very helpful.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell reported that the Plenary Planning Program will be following up with the speakers for the IETF 101 plenary to narrow the focus for each speaker.


### 4. Minutes


The minutes of the 31 January 2018 business meeting were approved.


### 5. Action item review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 6. Response to Liaison on IPv6 work items


The IAB discussed the draft text for the response to Liaison 1546 on IPv6 work items. Lee Howard will update the text based on the discussion and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 7. Consolidation


Jari Arkko previously sent draft text for a problem statement on consolidation out to the IAB for review. Jari noted that he is not sure what the next steps should be, but he thinks there is value in letting people know that the IAB is thinking about the topic.


Mark Nottingham suggested that the text might make a good starting point for a blog entry from the IAB. The IAB agreed; Jari Arkko took an action to draft the blog post.


Ted Hardie asked for the consolidation topic to be added to the IAB retreat agenda. Jari Arkko agreed to facilitate the discussion at the retreat. Cindy Morgan will update the retreat wiki accordingly.


### 8. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported via email prior to the meeting that the action items regarding the workshop budget and workshop venue remain open.


### 9. Independent Stream


Martin Thomson sent a draft on the future of the Independent Stream out to the IAB for review. Martin will update the draft based on the comments received. The IAB will discuss this further at their next teleconference on 14 February 2018.


### 10. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB approved the text for the call for nominations for the ICANN Board Liaison appointment. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations.


### 11. Root Zone Label Generation Rules for IDN TLDs


The IAB briefly discussed the ICANN study group on Root Zone Label Generation Rules for IDN TLDs. Ted Hardie will draft text for a request for a volunteer to participate in the study group.


