
Minutes of the 2018-05-09 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Regrets:


* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jonne Soininen (ICANN Liaison)
* Robert Sparks


#### Guest:


* Daniel Kahn Gillmor


### 2. Tech Chat: Ideas for Future Plenaries


Daniel Kahn Gillmor joined the IAB to discuss ideas for future technical plenary topics. Suggested topics included:


* How IETF work interacts with work standardized elsewhere, e.g. the Tor Project
* How user interfaces are affected by IETF protocols, e.g. Autocrypt
* A systems analysis of cross-protocol interaction.


The Plenary Planning Program will follow up with Daniel Kahn Gillmor.


### 3. Monthly Reports


#### 3.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB 
9 May 2018

Topics:

I. Recent Policy Papers
	IoT Security for Policy Makers 
	Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on Encryption and 
Lawful Access Report
	Africa Personal Data Protection and Privacy Guidelines 

II.  Upcoming Policy Papers
	Sustainable Business Models - Community Networks
	Innovative Licensing Paper - Enabling Community Networks

III. Upcoming Submissions
	Internet Governance Forum (IGF) 2018

IV. Recent and Upcoming Engagements
	African Internet Summit (AIS) 29 April – 11 May  in Dakar, 
Senegal
	SSIG  30 April-  2 May,  Washington DC, USA
	IGF Afghanistan, 1-3  May, Kabul,  Afghanistan 
	Canadian Multistakeholder Process Workshop  14 May, Ottawa,  
Canada
	Commission on Science and Technology for Development (CSTD), 
21st session, 14-18 May, Geneva, 
	G20 Consumer Summit 15-16 May, Buenos Aires, Argentina
	RightsCon 2018   16-18 May,  Toronto,  Canada
	Caribbean IGF  21-23 May,  Paramaribo, Suriname
	CITEL PCC1 meeting 21-24 May, Lima, Peru
	SEEDIG  23-24 May,  Ljubljana, Slovenia
	ITU Regional Development Forum for LAC 25 May,  Lima, Peru
	Caribbean Peering & Interconnection Forum (CarPIF 2018) 

V. Highlights of Recent Activities
	Mutually Agreed Norms for Routing Security (MANRS) IXP Programme 
launched
	IXP Assistance
	National Community Network Hearings - Mexico
	Canadian Multistakeholder Process -- Enhancing IoT Security
	Community Networks (CNs):  
	IRTF/GAIA:  

************

I. Recent Policy Papers

IoT Security for Policy Makers 
The Internet Society Discussion Paper: IoT Security for Policymakers was 
published on 19 April. The paper provides an introduction to key 
considerations and challenges, and recommendations for policymakers as 
they approach the area of IoT Security. (https://
www.internetsociety.org/resources/2018/iot-security-for-policymakers/)

Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on Encryption and Lawful 
Access Report
On 19 April 2018, the Internet Society and Chatham House released the 
report from their joint Internet Society-Chatham House Roundtable on 
Encryption and Lawful Access (https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/
doc/2018/internet-society-chatham-house-roundtable-on-encryption-and-
lawful-access/). The Roundtable brought together a wide range of experts 
to identify nuances, areas for improvement, and break down the problem 
into manageable pieces. 

Africa Personal Data Protection and Privacy Guidelines 
The Africa Privacy Guidelines were launched on 8 May during the Africa 
Internet Summit in Dakar, Senegal. (https://www.internetsociety.org/
resources/doc/2018/personal-data-protection-guidelines-for-africa/) 

II.  Upcoming Policy Papers

Sustainable Business Models - Community Networks
As a result of the community network project launched in the Tusheti 
region of Georgia last year, the European Bureau is working with ISOC's 
Georgia Chapter, the World Bank, and other experts to capture key issues 
related to sustainable business models for community networks.  
Interviews have been conducted with key European community networks to 
identify best-practices and common issues related to successful 
sustainability.  The paper will be launched during Euro-Dig, June 1-3.

Innovative Licensing Paper - Enabling Community Networks
A draft of the Innovative Licensing Paper was circulated with the ISOC 
community, and a final version of the paper will be released in May.  

III.  Upcoming Submissions

Internet Governance Forum (IGF) 2018
The IGF 2018 Call for workshops is now open until 27 May. Anyone can 
submit proposals to organize workshops at the 13th Annual Meeting of the 
Internet Governance Forum to be held in November/December 2018. The link 
for submissions is: https://www.intgovforum.org/multilingual/content/
igf-2018-call-for-workshop-proposals

IV. Recent and Upcoming Engagements

African Internet Summit (AIS) 29 April – 11 May  in Dakar, Senegal
The African Internet Summit (AIS) is a technical event that aims to 
bring the information, communication and technical business, and tech 
community in Africa together under one roof to talk about Africa’s most 
pressing issues and challenges. (https://www.internetsociety.org/events/
africa-internet-summit/2018/)

SSIG  30 April-  2 May,  Washington DC, USA
The South School on Internet Governance is held to train new leaders in 
all aspects related with Internet Governance, from a global perspective 
and with focus on the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The program 
trains university and postgraduate students from the region and from the 
rest of the world in understanding the complexity related with Internet 
Governance and its importance in the future of the Internet.

IGF Afghanistan, 1-3  May, Kabul,  Afghanistan 
The Second IGF of Afghanistan bring together Leaders from government, 
civil society, private sector, technical and academic communities 
converge at the IGFA 2018 to discuss the most pressing Internet 
Governance issues, including Internet access, its diversity, robustness, 
security, stability and development. 

Canadian Multistakeholder Process Workshop  14 May, Ottawa,  Canada
Enhancing IoT Security: ISOC will host two workshops on May 14 -- one 
for youths and one for industry leaders. The goal of the workshops are 
to aid in the develop of recommendations for a set of norms and policies 
to secure the Internet of Things (IoT) in Canada.  For more information 
please visit:  https://iotsecurity2018.ca/ 

Commission on Science and Technology for Development (CSTD), 21st 
session, 14-18 May, Geneva, 
The twenty-first session will  review the progress made in the 
implementation of the outcomes of the World Summit on the Information 
Society (WSIS). (http://unctad.org/en/pages/MeetingDetails.aspx?
meetingid=16700 

G20 Consumer Summit 15-16 May, Buenos Aires, Argentina
The theme for this year’s Summit is ‘Effective and inclusive consumer 
protection’. The Summit will bring together senior representatives from 
G20 governments, international organisations, consumer groups, global 
business and civil society to discuss the challenges and opportunities 
facing consumers in 2018 and beyond. Raúl Echeberría will be speaking.

RightsCon 2018   16-18 May,  Toronto,  Canada
As the world’s leading conference on human rights in the digital age, 
RightsCon bring together business leaders, policy makers, general 
counsels, government representatives, technologists, and human rights 
defenders from around the world to tackle pressing issues at the 
intersection of human rights and digital technology. This is where our 
community comes together to break down silos, forge partnerships, and 
drive large-scale, real-world change toward a more free, open, and 
connected world.

Caribbean IGF  21-23 May,  Paramaribo, Suriname
The 14th CIGF will provide a regional platform to highlight and address 
current Internet governance issues of Caribbean and global prominence, 
such as data protection/privacy, social media and network/service 
resiliency, towards building consensus on appropriate Caribbean 
approaches and formulating action plans for advancing Caribbean 
interests.  

CITEL PCC1 meeting 21-24 May, Lima, Peru
The CITEL  PCC1 is an advisory committee of CITEL in the area of 
telecommunications/ICTs, especially in matters related to 
telecommunication/ICT policy, regulatory aspects, standardization, 
cybersecurity, international public policy issues relating to the 
Internet, in as much as those issues involve telecommunications networks 
or ICT Infrastructure, universal service, economic and social 
development, environment and climate change, and the development of 
infrastructure and new technologies.

SEEDIG  23-24 May,  Ljubljana, Slovenia
SEEDIG is sub-regional Internet Governance Forum initiative dedicated to 
facilitating discussions and collaboration on Internet-related issues 
within South East Europe and neighboring area (SEE).

ITU Regional Development Forum for LAC 25 May,  Lima, Peru
This Regional Development Forum is an opportunity to promote a high-
level dialogue between the Telecommunication Development Bureau (BDT) 
and governments, regulators, ITU Member States and Sector Members. It 
aims not only to present the work of the BDT for the period 2014-2017

Caribbean Peering & Interconnection Forum (CarPIF 2018) 
The 3rd CarPIF will take place 13-14 June in Belize.  CarPIF is 
coordinated by The Caribbean Network Operators Group (CaribNOG) with 
support from the Internet Society (ISOC), the Caribbean 
Telecommunications Union (CTU), the American Registry for Internet 
Numbers (ARIN), and Packet Clearing House (PCH). It aims to focus on 
network resilience, peering and transit strategies, content hosting, 
policies, and opportunities.

V. Highlights of Recent Activities

Mutually Agreed Norms for Routing Security (MANRS) IXP Programme
The MANRS IXP Programme was launched on 23 April and introduces a 
separate membership category for IXPs with a set of security actions to 
address the unique needs and concerns of IXPs. https://www.manrs.org/
participants/ixp/. Related to this, ISOC has signed an MOU with LAC-IX 
to encourage greater collaboration on implementation of MANRS with IXPs 
in the LAC region.

IXP Assistance
ISOC continues to work with new and developing IXPs to provide them with 
training, strategic planning, or equipment.  In 2018, we have provided 
equipment to Guatemala and Lebanon to strengthen their local IXP 
environments and to encourage greater neutral peering and 
interconnection.

National Community Network Hearings - Mexico
ISOC staff participated in a community network/community radio event 
held by the Mexican regulatory body (IFT) April 16-17. The purpose of 
the event was to discuss community networks/radio with a broad community 
of interest as Mexico shapes additional policies/regulatory vehicles on 
access.

Canadian Multistakeholder Process -- Enhancing IoT Security
The first meeting in this year-long series was held in Ottawa. 
Participants represented a wide-range of stakeholder groups, including 
government, academia, public interest, and industry representatives. 
Participants are continuing to engage virtually through several 
listservs and will reconvene this summer to continue the discussions in 
person. More information can be found https://www.internetsociety.org/
blog/2018/04/successful-first-event-canadian-multistakeholder-process-
enhancing-iot-security-series/ and a report out can be found https://
iotsecurity2018.ca/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Meeting-report-Canadian-
Multistakeholder-Process.pdf.  

Community Networks (CNs):  
ISOC continues to expand its community network development and training 
with partners.  Network deployments are planned in Argentina, 
Kyrgyzstan, and Zimbabwe, along with continued support to the Republic 
of Georgia community network in the Tusheti region.  The team also 
partnered with the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) to 
promote two CN workshops during the WSIS Forum meetings in Geneva, and 
to promote a soon to be released Licensing policy brief (to promote more 
flexible means to allow local access network development).  The 
Licensing Policy Brief to enable CNs complements a policy brief on 
Spectrum Options for Community Networks released in October 2017.

IRTF/GAIA:  
ISOC is co-chairing GAIA with Professor Leandro Navarro. A call will go 
out for IETF 102 for more experts to speak during GAIA, and for GAIA to 
develop best practices/guidelines for local access network/CN 
development.  The goal is to highlight innovative use of/access to 
technology to provide connectivity in unserved/underserved areas.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 3.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–



```
IRTF Report for May 2018 (submitted May 9, 2018)

ANRW
The Chairs, steering committee, and others worked hard to promote the 
Call for Papers, and 40 submissions came in.  The planning for the space 
and schedule with the Secretariat is under way.  Still to be done: 
determine with IAD/IAOC what IETF access we can bundle with the non-
IETFers’ admission fee for the workshop (and at what price), so as to 
encourage the new folks to join in at IETF.

Also still to be done: on May 14, the chairs and I will work on 
identifying the topics of tracks in workshop to aid scheduling.  No RGs 
will be scheduled, but for WGs, there may be tracks that people want to 
encourage attendance to the workshop.

ANRP 
The upcoming ANRP awardees will be “announced” and promoted starting the 
last week of May.  As previously reported here, they are:

Panos Papadimitratos, KTH, SECMACE: Scalable and Robust Identity and 
Credential Infrastructure in Vehicular Communication, IEEE ITS (to 
appear 4/18)

Maria Apostolaki, ETHZ, Hijacking Bitcoin: Routing Attacks on 
Cryptocurrencies, IEEE S&P 2017

ETHZ promoted Maria’s paper and the ANRP call on twitter during the buzz 
about the routing/DNS hack by the Bitcoin thieves, and we retweeted.  
This will be a very timely and interesting talk.  

During scheduling, plan is to keep the IRTFOPEN meeting clear of 
security  (to the extent possible) and IoT WGs.

In other news, thanks to sponsorship contributions from Comcast and NBC 
Universal, we have invited two past ANRP awardees for return visits in 
Montreal, Samuel Jero, who works on QUIC measurement, and Roya Ensafi, 
who works on censorship and privacy topics.  Roya will present new work 
in the HRPC RG.  Samuel will be in touch with the QUIC chairs and the 
TSV ADs about ways he can contribute during his return visit.

Status of Proposed and Potential Research Groups 
Path-Aware Networking Proposed RG (PANRG) is ready to transition from 
Proposed Research Group to RG.  This follows a discussion by the IRSG 
and some small tweaks to the charter to clarify that PANRG is very 
consciously using the results of past attempts on this topic in the IETF 
and trying to steer through past pitfalls to useful eventual future 
results. 

Proposed Quantum Internet RG is actively using its mailing list 
(qirg@irtf.org). As mentioned last month, there are currently two co-
chairs, Rod van Meter (Keio University) and Stephanie Wehner (TU Delft)

Privacy Enhancements and Assessment Proposed Research Group  (PEARG) has 
a mailing list coming out this week, and will begin public discussions 
of its charter after a few more comments of the IRTF Chair are 
addressed.  PEARG will closely coordinate with CFRG.

Looking for a new co-chair for HRPC RG.  Niels ten Oever resigned his 
co-chairship in favor of more efforts on his document work within the 
RG.  

Informal work underway:  Marie-José Montpetit is planning to organize a 
non-RG forming side meeting to talk in Montreal about the ML research 
directions in applied networking.  It is non-RG forming because of the 
past Proposed RG on this topic that failed to lift off.  Current thought 
is a non-RG mailing list and wiki can be used to inform ML aspects of 
other RGs.

More RGs’ status next month as the planning continues.

Miscellaneous

A set of requested updates to the datatracker for the IRTF and IRSG was 
presented in April, and Mat Ford implemented one great fix, a search 
field for IRTF states, which was brought into an April release.  Other 
requests include datatracker support for the IRSG reviews and ballots on 
documents.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–


#### 3.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 10 May 2018
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
- The April 2018 statistics report has not yet been finalized.  It will 
be reported next month.
 
Other News:
   
- None to report
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
MEETING MINUTES - BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Monday, March 19, 2018
Lunch Meeting at IETF-101, London
1200 Local Time, 1200 UTC 
 
Attendees:
Jari Arkko, IAB IANA Program
Amanda Baber, PTI Lead IANA Services Specialist
Brad Biddle, IETF Legal Counsel
Alissa Cooper, IETF Chair
Michelle Cotton, PTI Protocol Parameters Engagement Sr. Manager
Kim Davies, IANA VP/PTI President
Ted Hardie, IAB Chair
Russ Housley, IAB IANA Program
Jonne Soininen, IETF liaison to ICANN Board
Portia Wenze-Danley, Interim IAD
Suzanne Woolf, IAB IANA Program
 
1. Introductions and Welcome
 
Kim Davies has been named IANA VP/PTI President.

Brad Biddle is the new IETF Legal Counsel.  He is observing today to 
learn about what IANA Services are provided for the IETF and what the 
relationships are.
 
2.  Review of Action Items
  
Inactive Process Report: M.Cotton is updating the report with the data 
for 2017.
 
Report back to IESG about ports process: Last IETF meeting we did an 
overview of the ports process including what was currently in the queue, 
how the processing of requests was working and what problems there were.   
Full report went to small group which was made up of the Transport Area 
Directors and Alexey Melnikov. May start using mailing list, so that 
multiple experts can join conversation about requests.  Details of 
changes to the process will be discussed amongst the smaller group this 
week.
 
Discussion:

New Action item:  IETF leadership to describe how RFC 7154 applies to 
the work of experts for IETF-designated protocol parameter registries.


Provide updates related to GDPR: Update included in notes below. 
 
3. IANA Services Activity
 
Processed more than 1483 IETF-related requests from October 2017 - 
February 2018. This includes: Document reviews, registry creations, new 
registrations, modifications to existing registrations, and deletions.  
This reporting period was for 5 months as opposed to the normal 4-month 
period.
 
Added 10 new stand-alone registries since IETF-100 (October 2017- 
February 2018)
 
Looking at how to report creation of registries within existing URLs.

R. Housley had a question regarding one of the new registries created.

New Action Item: Send Russ detailed information about xmss-hash-based 
registry
 
SLA Deliverables: 

Average cumulative percentage for September 2017-February 2018 was 
99.83%. 
 
4. Update on Deliverables and Projects
 
The 2017 Annual Review of Protocol was sent to this group on January 22, 
2018. No remediation required.
 
Proposed 2018 SLA was approved via an e-vote by the IAOC. Ready for 
signature.
 
5. Discussion Items
 
- Protocol Parameter Queues
 
A small group is working on improvements to the port review process. 
Will report to IESG results.
 
A. Baber reported the status of media-types to the IESG at the Sunday 
breakfast meeting. A. Melnikov continues to assist with making 
improvements to the process and looking at requests that need review. A. 
Melnikov wants the secondary expert to take a more primary role, with 
the primary expert adding comments after the initial review. Discussed 
adding another expert, but second expert pointed out that training took 
months. May be useful to set up meeting with experts to document more 
information about what is required as part of an expert review so this 
can be recorded for future expert use. A. Cooper will talk to Alexey 
about this.
 
- Satisfaction Survey
 
Oct 2016- Nov 2017 customer survey completed. Low response rate from 
IESG, as before. Registry accuracy rated as most important factor for 
IANA performance. Happiness roughly same as recent years (methodology 
change – inclusion of “not applicable” category – made total 
satisfaction numbers shift lower). Significantly lower number of 
participants; reason unclear, unless timing (circa meeting) was an 
issue. Moving toward adding a post-ticket survey in addition to annual 
survey.
 
- General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)
 
K. Davies, who has more contact w/legal team, updates the group on 
ICANN’s activities related to GDPR.

IETF leadership, IETF counsel and ICANN folks are meeting later today to 
discuss GDPR in more detail.

For IANA, we don’t set policies for how information is displayed in 
registries.  Generally speaking, there are two registration buckets: 1) 
public good, defined protocol purpose (i.e. “port 25”; most IETF 
registrations are like this) 2) assigned to person or legal entity, 
typically FCFS. We want to avoid collision on these lists; direct them 
to value if they already have one.

Discussion:

T. Hardie: As with URI schemes, avoiding collisions is the public good 
we’re seeking.

As with PEN, they won’t collide with other numbers.

K. Davies: We can avoid collisions with PEN numbers without saying who 
has numbers in registry. Analysis needs to be done.

J. Arkko: I could take contact info and ask someone “what is this 
protocol?”

K. Davies: We need to capture legitimate business uses so we can defend 
them. There are probably cases where the RFC tells us to capture data – 
hopefully minor ones – that can’t be defended. For example, TRIP ITAD 
RFC requires us to collect postal addresses. Doesn’t say we need to 
publish. One thing that needs to be clarified: for what purpose is party 
listed as change controller? People may have slightly different 
assumptions about this. People making registrations need to know why 
they’re being listed.

Michelle: Per RFC 8126, for FCFS and Expert Review (and sometimes Spec 
Required) we need a change controller in case the contact disappears and 
need to know who can authorize changes.

Ted: worried that telephony stuff in stir is motivated by regulatory 
with FCC that require some identification, and which would conflict with 
GDPR. For early registries, there was likely a government body that said 
that this data had to be collected. Talk to Jon Peterson or Berger. For 
early registries, there was likely a government body that said that this 
data had to be collected. May no longer be salient government body.

A. Cooper is sending TRIP author a note.

Ted: Do you want us to help you find out which registries require 
identifying information for which reasons?

K. Davies: We need to do an analysis. Have only been discussing this 
with legal for a few weeks.

M. Cotton: We need to inventory the registries that we have for types of 
contact info.

T. Hardie: You will do first-cut analysis, then experts?

M. Cotton: Yes

K. Davies: We need RFCs to be more disciplined in future about telling 
us whether we’re collecting or publishing data, and assumptions about 
why this data is being captured needs to be spelled out.

P. Wenze-Danley: RFC Editor is focused on GDPR as required per 
legitimate expert. There’s no way that they can not have information. 
They’re not looking at it from consent aspect. IETF tools is looking at 
identifying where contact information is.

Michelle: In future Last Call and Evaluation reviews, we’ll push back on 
personal information in registries.

Action Item: M. Cotton to provide inventory report for Protocol 
Parameter registries for GDPR/PII
 
- .arpa
 
home.arpa is now in the .arpa zone.
 
Changes to the .arpa domain are needed as .arpa is currently served by 
the root name servers. A two-phase approach was discussed: 1)  renaming 
name servers serving .arpa to other naming scheme (removes glue conflict 
when we change the glue); 2) this will take longer: moving authorities 
to different hosts. Recommended approach is to separate .arpa and root; 
overlap is historic and not required.

Action Item: M. Cotton and K. Davies to write an I-D with the proposed 
plan. Share with the IAB before posting.

 - Registry Workflow System Update (K. Davies)


K. Davies provided an update on the Registry Workflow System. 

 Prototype of imported data deployed internally for staff review. Corner 
cases that don’t fit schema identified. Will contact authors/experts and 
ask whether they can be normalized per our schema, or whether we need to 
adapt. Aim to share on limited basis with leadership/trusted experts. 
Beginning work on request submission process with forms generated from 
the registry fields in the database.  More updates will be provided at 
the IETF meeting in Montreal.

 - Other Business
 
RSM is the new audit firm for SOC2/SOC3 audits.
 
Director of Technical Services position is now open.
 
KSK rollover update: planned for Oct 11, 2018. Public comment on plans 
currently underway. Comments open until April 1.
 
- Informal Meeting Schedule
 
In person March 19, 2018 (London)
Phone May 21, 2018  (1 week early  due to the US Memorial Day Holiday)
In person July 16, 2018 (Montreal)
Phone September 24, 2018
In person November 26, 2018 (Bangkok)
Potential call in April to follow-up on GDPR discussions.
Last two weeks of April are retreat weeks.
 
6. Summary of Action Items
 
Action item: A. Cooper/T. Hardie: Review existing escalation procedures.  
Determine if there needs to be a new/different process/policy for 
escalation process for complaints regarding expert reviews.
 
Action item:  A. Baber to send R. Housley information on the xmss-hash-
based registry
 
Action item: R. Housley to review the Annual Review of Protocol 
Parameters report, prepare statement, send to the IAOC for approval and 
posting.
 
Action item: T. Hardie and A. Cooper Discuss potential 8126bis or other 
document telling community to consider what data to publish in 
registries.  (Privacy considerations when creating registries)
 
Action Item: M. Cotton to provide inventory report for Protocol 
Parameter registries for GDPR/PII
 
Action item: M. Cotton: Inquire if April call is needed to follow-up on 
GDPR discussions.
 
Action item: M. Cotton and K. Davies to write an I-D with the proposed 
plan. Share with the IAB before posting.
 
MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 3.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RFC Editor Liaison Report

RSE

  - GDPR: A statement regarding personal data handling in the context of 
    GDPR has been reviewed by legal counsel and posted on the RFC Editor 
    website: https://www.rfc-editor.org/gdpr

RPC

  - https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Q2 2018 notes: While the number of documents and pages moved to EDIT 
have slowed so far in Q2, the editors continue to work their way through 
the Q1 influx. In addition to the heavy queue load, the editors are also 
working on testing v3-related tools, namely svgcheck, rfclint, and rfc-
xmldiff. The RFC Editor has also agreed to partake in an  experiment 
whereby GitHub will be used for AUTH48 processing for draft-ietf-tls-
tls13-28 (currently being edited) and draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-24 
(currently in MISSREF).  The usual editorial process will be altered in 
that all questions will be held until AUTH48, which may elongate AUTH48.

As noted for Q1, the RPC has developed a process to check that YANG 
modules are well formatted and ready to be posted on the IANA website.  
The RPC continues to work with Martin Bjorklund and the YANG authors to 
improve the process of preparing and passing module files to IANA for 
posting on their site.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 4. Minutes


The minutes of the 4 April 2018 and the 11 April 2018 business meetings were approved.


### 5. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 6. Future Tech Plenaries


Allison Mankin reported that she is working to schedule a tech chat with Deirdre Mulligan.


Melinda Shore has scheduled a tech chat with Jon Crowcroft on “The Hub of All Things” for 30 May 2018.


### 7. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that 40 submissions were received for the ANRW. Allison will work with the chairs to identify topical tracks for the workshop to aid in scheduling it against IETF 102.


### 8. CCG Appointment


The IAB agreed to extend the call for nominations for the CCG appointment by 4 weeks. Cindy Morgan will update the timeline and send out a notice that the call has been extended.


### 9. RSOC Appointments


The IAB approved the timeline and text for the call for nominations for the RSOC. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations on 16 May 2018.


### 10. Feedback from the Independent Stream Editorial Board


The IAB discussed feedback from the Independent Stream Editorial Board on proposed changes to the Independent Stream. The IAB will discuss this further next week when Heather Flanagan is available to join the IAB meeting.


### 11. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB approved Harald Alvestrand as the next liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors via e-vote.


### 12. Executive Session: Update from the RSSAC Liaison


An update from the IETF’s liaison to RSSAC was discussed in an executive session.


