
Minutes of the 2018-01-17 IAB Teleconference (Tech Chat & Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper
* Mat Ford (ISOC Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Lee Howard
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Kathleen Moriarty (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza


##### Regrets:


* Joe Hildebrand
* Mark Nottingham
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Guests:


* Leandro Navarro
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Administrivia


A Tech Chat on “Making Community Networks Economically Sustainable” was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Minutes


The minutes of the 10 January 2018 business meeting remain under review.


### 2. Tech Chat: Making Community Networks Economically Sustainable


Professor Leandro Navarro joined the IAB to talk about his experience with guifi.net and implementing community networks.


Community networks are decentralized; they are an open network infrastructure commons that is built by individuals and organizations. Citizens and organizations pool resources and coordinate efforts to build network infrastructures that are open, free, and neutral. They are typically based on voluntary efforts and non-refundable contributions, so it is a challenge to make them sustainable and scalable.


Allison Mankin asked how community networks work when the local culture does not have faith in a collaborative reinvestment approach. Professor Navarro replied that every community has their own local way of doing things, and it depends on finding the right approach for that particular community. The economic model is that everyone contributes, but the important part is to find efficient ways to create the infrastructures.


### 3. Future Tech Plenaries


Brian Trammell reported that a tech chat with Steve Song has been scheduled for 7 February 2018.


Gabriel Montenegro will work with Cindy Morgan to schedule a tech chat with Steve Bellovin; to accommodate Steve’s schedule, that IAB meeting will run 30 minutes longer than normal.


### 4. Updating IAB Statement on Identifiers and Unicode 7.0.0


Ted Hardie reported that Suzanne Woolf has been working with Asmus Freytag on text regarding the security considerations of implementing Unicode.


### 5. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group in an executive session. Ted Hardie will send an e-ballot to the IAB to vote on the appointment.


### 7. Executive Session: IESG Slate


The IAB discussed the IESG slate presented by the NomCom in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send an e-ballot to the IAB on this slate on 19 January 2018.


