
Minutes of the 2018-10-24 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Erik Nordmark
* Jeff Tantsura
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


There was not a quorum of IAB members present on the call, so any items requiring a formal decision will require follow-up by e-vote.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 2018-10-10 business meeting remain under review.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. November-January Call Schedule


The IAB members who were present on the call provisionally approved an adjusted conference call schedule for November-January to accommodate IETF 103 and the holidays. Cindy Morgan will follow up with the IAB members who were not on the call before updating the calendar.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 103


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 103. Ted Hardie suggested adding an item on 5G to the Sunday agenda.


Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads to send her the details for any Program meetings.


### 4. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that he is working with the W3C TAG to finalize the ESCAPE workshop description; he said that he expects to be able to announce the workshop next week.


### 5. CIPE Workshop


Brian Trammell reported that the call for papers for the CIPE Workshop is almost ready; he will send the IAB a link to the current text.


### 6. draft-iab-path-signals


Ted Hardie reported that he has received comments from Erik Nordmark and Mark Nottingham. He plans to have an updated version of the draft ready before IETF 103.


### 7. IAB-specific instructions to the RFC Editor


The IAB reviewed the text for a variant of the RFC boilerplate text that can be used for workshop reports.


### 8. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that she has drafted a call for participation in the Plenary Planning Program. Cindy Morgan will send the message to IETF-Announce.


Melinda Shore reported that the Plenary Planning Program has discussed whether it would be better to go back to having two plenaries. Melinda will add an item to the IAB’s joint agenda with the IESG to discuss this further at IETF 103.


The Program has also been discussing that it is difficult to get plenary topics where the level of architecture that is on-theme for the topic is a part of the architecture that the IAB is chartered to deal with. Ted Hardie noted that that discussion should probably be bigger than just the Plenary Planning Program. Allison Mankin suggested that it be added to the next IAB retreat agenda.


### 9. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, the ISOC Board of Trustees, and the IRTF Chair in an executive session.


