
Minutes of the 2018-06-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Roll-call, agenda-bash, administrivia, minutes


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Erik Nordmark
* Suzanne Woolf


#### 1.2. Administrivia


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that next week’s meeting will be 24 hours earlier than normal.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the coordination meeting with IEEE 802 will be on Thursday, 29 July at 1500 UTC.


Several new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The minutes of the 13 June 2018 business meeting were approved.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Future Tech Plenaries


There were no updates on future technical plenaries.


### 3. IAB response to NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities


Ted Hardie reported that the deadline to provide comments on the NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities has been extended to 17 July 2018.


Martin Thomson provided some draft text for responses to the privacy and security questions. Suzanne Woolf and the IANA Program are still working on draft responses to the governance questions.


### 4. BOF and PRG Coverage at IETF 102


The IAB agreed on the following BOF and proposed RG coverage for IETF 102:


* driu: Alissa Cooper, Melinda Shore, and Martin Thomson will cover the BOF.
* i18nrp: Ted Hardie will cover the BOF.
* rfcplusplus: Alissa Cooper is the sponsoring AD. Jari Arkko, Christian Huitema, Gabriel Montenegro, Melinda Shore, and Brian Trammell will cover the BOF.
* dinrg: Melinda Shore is a PRG is co-chair. Robert Sparks and Brian Trammell will cover the PRG.
* panrg: Gabriel Montenegro will cover the PRG.


### 5. IAB agenda at IETF 102


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 102.


Jari Arkko asked to add an IANA Program meeting to Sunday morning before the joint IAB/IESG meeting. Cindy Morgan will find a meeting room and get back to Jari.


### 6. Applied Networking Research Workshop


Allison Mankin reported that plans for the workshop are underway; the only open issue left to resolve is whether the workshop will be billed separately for Meetecho.


### 7. IDNA Parameter Registry


Ted Hardie reported that IANA has been unable to update the IDNA Parameter Registry because they are waiting for approval from the expert reviewer. The reviewer is waiting for the outcome of the Internationalization Review Procedures (i18nrp) BOF at IETF 102. Ted asked the IAB to keep track of this in case further action is needed.


### 8. ISOC Reports


Karen O’Donoghue asked the IAB for feedback on the current format of the monthly ISOC liaison report, noting that it is currently very policy-focused.


Ted Hardie replied that he finds the reports valuable, but that the IAB would also like the ability to review things that goes into the advice that ISOC gives on technical matters. He noted that if there are items that are confidential, they can be reviewed under confidentiality.


### 9. Privacy & Security Program Membership


The IAB approved adding Benjamin Kaduk to the Privacy and Security Program.


### 10. Potential SG/2 Request for allocation


Ted Hardie reported that Scott Mansfield, as IETF liaison to the ITU-T, will follow up informally with the ITU-T on a proposal from CHARISMA (<http://www.charisma5g.eu/>). This may end up becoming a formal liaison statement.


### 11. Executive Session: RSOC Membership


The IAB discussed the ongoing RSOC member evaluation process in an executive session.


### 12. Executive Session: Review of LLC legal documents


The IAB discussed reviewing the LLC legal documents in an executive session.


