
Minutes of the 2018-07-15 IAB Business Meeting, Montreal
--------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Olaf Kolkman (ISOC)
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Regrets:


* Christian Huitema


### 2. Executive Session: Vote on CCG appointment


The IAB approved appointing Tim Wicinski to the CCG by acclamation.


### 3. The Shine of the Internet Program


Brian Trammell led a discussion with the IAB to try to focus the scope of the proposed Shine of the Internet Program. The main cause of the change in public perception is the growing asymmetry between powerful commercial and government actors and the general public. Certain aspects of the Internet architecture serve to exacerbate this asymmetry, even though the forces driving the changes are external to the Internet.


This asymmetry is largely a consequence of consolidation. Unsolved problems in the architecture exacerbate this consolidation, as these problems are easily fixed though centralization and scale, e.g. DDoS and search.


Asymmetry affects the Internet users in many ways. Large platforms learn a lot about users and use that knowledge to drive personalized content and advertising. Instead of flowing directly, communication between users is now often mediated through those platforms, with consequences such as filter bubbles. Since the drivers are non-technical, this is not a problem the IAB can fix. However, in its capacity as a technical advisory body to the Internet Society, the IAB can engage with them in their ongoing efforts e.g. the Building Trust in the Internet initiative.


Olaf Kolkman noted that the Internet Society’s Global Internet Report for 2018 will focus on consolidation. Brian Trammell suggested setting up a tech chat between the IAB and the people at ISOC working on the report. Cindy Morgan will coordinate with Olaf to try and schedule that tech chat for 1 August 2018.


The IAB concluded that the scope is still too broad to corral into a single IAB program. The IAB will continue discussions about this over email and at future teleconferences to try to narrow the scope to pieces that the IAB can work on effectively.


### 4. draft-iab-iotsi-workshop


The IAB approved sending draft-iab-iotsi-workshop out for community review.


### 5. NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities Response


The IAB agreed upon the text for their response to the NTIA NOI on International Internet Policy Priorities. Ted Hardie will send out the response on behalf of the IAB.


### 6. Web Packaging Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that there is interest from the W3C TAG about having a joint workshop on Web Packaging with participants from the publishing world. The IAB was interested in the idea, but wanted to be clear on what the IAB was looking to get out of the workshop. Mark will forward the workshop proposal to the IAB.


