
Minutes of the 2019-09-04 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Zhenbin Li
* Mark Nottingham


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle poll to select a time for the IETF 106 BOF coordination call.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-08-07 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-07)
* 2019-08-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-21)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-08-28 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-29)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-08-28: Ted and Sarah Banks to coordinate messages to the community re updating the RFC Editor Model. Sarah to send the SOW for the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager for 2-3 weeks of community review. Ted to follow the SOW message up with a message about the long-term strategic process for the next steps.
* 2019-08-21: Christian to take feedback to the RSOC re RSOC membership and adding stream manager liaisons to the RSOC.
* 2019-08-21: Alissa to ask Sean Turner to review 6635bis, 6548bis, and 4844bis from an IETF LLC perspective.
* 2019-07-25: Brian to send message to architecture-discuss re closure of Stackevo Program.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-08-28: Heather, Ted, and Cindy up a series of three (or so) virtual meetings to gather community feedback for the process for updating the RFC Editor Model. The virtual meetings should be spread to get the greatest number of time zones covered.
* 2019-08-28: Ted to request a session at the Singapore IETF (106) for Heather Flanagan to chair to discuss the process for the future of the RFC Series.
* 2019-08-21: Ted to follow up with Stephan Wenger re renewal of liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG). (Update expected after SC29 meeting on 2019-10-12.)
* 2019-07-21: Alissa to notify Ted & Stephen when final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Mark to drive action to prune down the IAB communications channels. (Status check due at IETF 106)
* 2019-05-17: Christian to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF.
* 2019-05-17: Ted to write blog post inviting the community to come to the IAB with new work proposal.
* 2019-02-06: Melinda to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-09-04: Cindy to send approval announcement for draft-iab-fiftyyears.
* 2019-09-04: Cindy to post IAB statement on “Avoiding Unintended Harm to Internet Infrastructure.”
* 2019-09-04: Cindy to start thread for IAB members to sign up to cover the interim meetings to discuss the RFC Editor Model.
* 2019-09-04: Cindy to send 6635bis, 6548bis, and 4844bis out for community review.
* 2019-09-04: Ted to follow up with ISE re ISE contract.
* 2019-09-04: Cindy to draft timeline/messaging for ISE contract.


### 2. draft-iab-fiftyyears


Via e-vote, the IAB approved draft-iab-fiftyyears as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send the announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 3. Avoiding Unintended Harm to Internet Infrastructure


The IAB approved the text for the IAB statement on “Avoiding Unintended Harm to Internet Infrastructure.” Cindy Morgan will post the statement on the IAB website.


### 4. RSE and RFC Editor Model Next Steps


Cindy Morgan reported that she is working with Heather Flanagan to set up virtual meetings to gather feedback for the process for updating the RFC Editor Model. The meetings will be at different times to accommodate as many time zones as possible:


* 2019-09-13 at 1600 UTC
* 2019-09-30 at 1300 UTC
* 2019-10-18 at 0200 UTC


The IAB discussed whether the IETF Note Well would apply to these meetings, since they would be of interest to a wider community than just the IETF. The IAB concluded that it would be sufficient to say something like:


“This is not an IETF or IRTF activity, but we are holding this discussion under the IETF and IRTF policies described in the Note Well. This is to ensure consistent and well-understood policies. To the extent that topics of discussion might comprise input to IETF or IRTF and involve regular participants in each, this ensures that these discussions are covered under the rules of those bodies.”


Ted Hardie said that it would be helpful if IAB members would sign up in advance to cover the meetings, to ensure that all of them had coverage. Cindy Morgan will start a thread on the mailing list to organize this.


### 5. 6635bis, 6548bis, and 4844bis


On 2019-08-21, the IAB decided to ask Sean Turner to review draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis, draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis, and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis from an IETF LLC perspective before the IAB sends the documents out for community review. After learning that Sean would not be able to complete the LLC review until mid-September, the IAB decided instead to send the documents out for community review now, and have the LLC review happen concurrently. If anything arises from the LCC review that would need to be resolved by the IASA2 Working Group, the community review process could be re-started.


Cindy Morgan will send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis, draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis, and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis out for community review.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed that they did not need to hold a meeting on 2019-09-11. The next IAB meeting will be on 2019-09-18.


### 7. Executive Session: Independent Submissions Editor Timeline


In an executive session, the IAB discussed the timeline and process for the Independent Submissions Editor contract.


### 8. Executive Session: Use of mailing lists for general confidential topics


In an executive session, they IAB discussed how they use mailing lists for confidential topics.


