
Minutes of the 2019-01-09 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Christian Huitema
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Alvaro Retana


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on draft-iab-path-signals was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2018-12-19 business meeting – (draft submitted 2018-12-19)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 3. Background Document on Internet Trust Infrastructure


Ted Hardie reported that he has sent framing text for a statement on “Trust in Internet Entities” out to the IAB list, and asked the IAB to review the text before the next IAB meeting.


### 4. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the Program Committee is still looking for a venue for the workshop, now tentatively planned for April 2019.


### 5. CIPE Workshop


Ted Hardie sent out a draft of an updated workshop description for CIPE, now renamed “Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR).”


Jari Arkko expressed concern that the current text reads like an academic exercise, and does not fully express how important this topic is for the Internet. Ted Hardie will give Jari editing privileges on the document so that he can suggest new text.


### 6. Plenary Planning Program Update


Cindy Morgan noted that Melinda Shore has an open action item to schedule a tech chat on privacy during January; she will follow up with Melinda on that.


Alissa Cooper noted that there has been discussion about having a talk about modern router architecture during plenary time at IETF 104, and said that Warren Kumari is likely to contact the Plenary Planning Program about this.


### 7. draft-iab-path-signals


Ted Hardie reported that he has posted a new version of draft-iab-path-signals that incorporates the comments received during the community review period. He asked that this be put on the next IAB agenda for approval.


### 8. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues


In an executive session, the IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the IAB Plenary Planning Program, the ICANN Technical Liaison Group, the ISOC Board of Trustees, and the IRTF Chair.


### 9. IESG Slate from NomCom


In a combination of executive session without the IETF Chair present and e-vote, the IAB confirmed the IESG slate presented to them by the NomCom. Alissa Cooper recused herself from all IESG slate discussion. Jari Arkko recused himself from the discussion of the Transport Area appointment. Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion of the Operations and Management Area appointment. Melinda Shore will follow up with the NomCom Chair.


