
Minutes of the 2019-12-11 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Wes Hardaker
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore


##### Observers:


* Alvaro Retana
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An executive session on the appointments to the Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) was added to the agenda.


### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* -2019-12-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-04)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2019-12-11: Ted Hardie and Martin Thomson to draft text describing the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2019-12-11: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Heather Flanagan regarding the RFC Editor liaison report for December 2019.
* 2019-12-11: Cindy Morgan to add an item to the retreat agenda to discuss codifying RSOC membership terms.
* 2019-12-11: Jari Arkko, Stephen Farrell, and Christian Huitema to make a recommendation about how to proceed with the Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments.


##### Updated:


* 2019-12-11: Ted Hardie to check with Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore about whether to roll the protocol designer version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement into the Model-T work. (Was: Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.)


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-22: IAB to get back to Scott Mansfield about coordinating work between the IETF and the ITU-T effort for Network 2030 and the Future of IP.
* 2019-11-18: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Christian Huitema, and Brian Trammell to draft description for a Program on Internet resiliency.
* 2019-11-17: All IAB to send comments on the draft IAB COI policy.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### Done:


* 2019-12-04: Ted Hardie to inform the RSOC and Executive Director that the IAB has agreed to the RSOC’s recommendation for Temporary RFC Series Project Manager.
* 2019-12-04: Ted Hardie to draft a message to the community regarding the formation of the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB mailing list page on the IAB website with a cross-check against the private wiki page.


##### Removed:


* 2019-11-17: Brian Trammell to create a sub in the intarchboard Github repo to discuss the encrypted DNS topic.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report — December 2019

Action Plan 2020 approved by ISOC Board of Trustees
The Internet Society 2020 Action Plan was approved by the ISOC Board of 
Trustees during their recent meeting in Singapore (23-24 Nov 2019). The 
Action Plan is all about the tangible work planned for 2020. It hinges 
around eight projects, each focused on some of the most pressing issues 
facing the Internet. The plan is available at 
https://www.internetsociety.org/action-plan/2020/. A pdf version is also 
available at: https://www.internetsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/
2019/12/ActionPlan2020_EN.pdf

Panel on Internet Consolidation 
Chatham House and the Internet Society held a panel discussion, which 
was live streamed, on Internet Consolidation at Chatham House on 10 Dec 
2019). The panel, which included ISOC CEO Andrew Sullivan, discussed 
various perspectives on Internet consolidation, with a specific focus on 
the potential benefits and concerns for services and infrastructure 
below the user-visible application layer. The event was part of a 
broader collaboration between ISOC and Chatham House that includes a 
special issue of the Journal of Cyber Policy  to explore the broader 
issue of Internet consolidation (to be published in the Spring of 2020 
under open access). More information is available at: https://
www.chathamhouse.org/event/internet-consolidation-what-lies-beneath-
application-layer. For more information and context about ISOC's 
previous work on this topic, we invite you to read the GIR 2019: 
"Consolidation in the Internet Economy”. 

"Internet Society Deeply Concerned about Interim Injunction Ordered by 
Hong Kong High Court”
The Internet Society issued a statement on Hong Kong's Interim 
Injunction prohibiting unspecified members of the public from sharing 
potentially violent content online. The order, which has since been 
significantly scaled back by the High Court, would have had serious 
implications for the operation of Internet infrastructure and online 
communications. The ISOC HK Chapter was at the forefront of this 
campaign, filing a civil action against the injunction, and launching a 
crowdsourcing initiative to support the proposed review.

Internet Governance Forum (IGF)
The 14th edition of the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) convened by 
United Nations (UN) was held in Berlin, Germany, from 26-29 November, 
2019. The main theme for this year was: "One World, One Net, One 
Vision", and the schedule was built following 3 thematic tracks: Digital 
Inclusion, Data Governance, and Security, Safety, Stability and 
Resiliency. ISOC staff and community were present at the event, with 
multiple activities planned. The ISOC Youth Ambassadors group was also 
in attendance and active. 

Proposed sale of Public Interest Registry (PIR)
The Internet Society announced the sale of the Public Interest Registry 
(PIR), operator of the .ORG, .NGO, and .ONG domains, to Ethos Capital. 
For more information, see: https://www.keypointsabout.org/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 11 December 2019.

# Research Groups

Seeking additional chairs for CFRG and MAPRG.

COIN was reviewed by IAB during IETF 106, and has completed its year as 
a proposed RG. Recently approved as a full RG. 

After long discussion with proponents during IETF 106, decided SMART 
would not be chartered. 

Discussion with Richard Li re NewIP/Network 2030 work at, and just prior 
to, IETF 106. No plans to charter new RG at this time. Any future work 
proposals will need to be scoped down significantly.

# ANRP

60 papers nominated, up from 42 last year. Reviews in progress.

# ANRW

Initial call for papers published. TPC selection and ACM budget process 
are in progress.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review

10 RFC errata awaiting review, relating to five RFCs produced by CFRG. 

# Other

IRTF Chair attended UN IGF in Berlin. 
Ongoing discussion with Grenville Armitage re diversity travel grants.
Ongoing discussion with Sarah Armstrong re ISOC Foundation Research 
awards.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to December 11, 2019

This brief report covers matters observed by the IAB liaison to the 
ICANN board, October 16 to December 10.

This period covers the time of the ICANN meeting in Montreal, Canada, 
and the IETF meeting in Singapore, so there is much to report on, but 
unfortunately not much time to make the summary.

Hot topic - the sale of PIR (.org)

The most talked-about ICANN topic of the last month was ISOC’s proposed 
sale of PIR to a commercial company (Ethos Capital) for slightly more 
than 1 billion dollars.

This came as a complete surprise to everyone I talked to in ICANN about 
the matter. ICANN has spent significant resource on figuring out exactly 
what the contracts and bylaws allow us to pass judgment on in this 
matter, and has asked PIR / ISOC / Ethos a number of clarifying 
questions about the deal.

ICANN’s role is to approve the change in control for the registry. It 
has no role in reviewing the transaction itself.

Other (hot/warm/lukewarm) topics

GDPR/EPDP: Work still ongoing. Still seeking information from the 
European data protection authorities that can guide the figuring out of 
what’s possible, what’s risky and what’s reasonable.

Root server restructuring: The GWG is in the process of being 
established (the IAB has been asked to select members); the process 
seems to be going forward as expected. No new crises.

Strategic plan - the main topic proposed by the board for discussion 
with the various constituencies in Montreal was “we have a 5-year 
strategic plan - what do we do now?”. Various things were said, many of 
them seem to equate to “keep going”.

SSAC has started an activity of “threat classification for the DNS 
ecosystem” - with a very nice high level description of concerns visible 
so far. Still lots of work to be done before it’s more widely 
distributable.

DNS Abuse - this is a (not quite) new buzzword that conflates the 
concepts of “bad things people do that somehow touch on the DNS”, “bad 
things that people do to the DNS infrastructure” and “bad things that 
are harder to do if DNS names pointing to it get taken away”. A 
registry/registrar manifesto pushed by some of the bigger actors 
(http://dnsabuseframework.org/) seems to be gathering quite a few 
adherents.

ICANN has scheduled a series of webinars with the community (public!) 
that talks about the 5-year financial / operating plan and the 2020 
budget. This is probably important to pay attention to. TL;DR version: 
We continue doing what we are doing, and do have money to follow up new 
things that we need to be doing.

We did manage to get Ted, Alissa and the new ICANN board chair Maarten 
to meet up in Montreal. This was a Good Thing.

Other stuff

ALAC had an At-Large Summit (ATLAS) in Montreal. This is the Great 
Event for At-Large, and they seemed eager to declare how much of a 
success it was. I did not attend any relevant meetings.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 11 November 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for October 2019 monthly 
statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
  
Other News:
 
IANA Annual Engagement survey completed and will be available this 
month. 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report (Singapore meeting minutes will be available for the next 
IAB business meeting)
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE
* Transition
Heather Flanagan will be working with John Levine through January 31, 
2020, to enable a smooth transfer of operational duties. The RSE mailbox 
will, for now, be archived and the address pointed to the RSOC mailing 
list.

RPC
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Note that the SLA is currently on hold until April 2020.

35 v3 RFCS have been published so far since the transition to v3 in mid-
September. Tooling and vocabulary-related issues are still being found 
and debated, largely on the xml2rfc mailing list as well as privately 
between the RPC staff and the developer.


RSOC
The Temporary RFC Series Project Manager has been awarded to John 
Levine.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed the draft IAB conflict of interest policy.


Martin Thomson asked the IAB to clarify the text on whether a perceived or potential conflict of interest on a technical topic was grounds for automatic recusal. Mark Nottingham asked who would make the determination of whether there is a conflict of interest.


The IAB will continue to discuss changes to the proposed conflict of interest policy via email.


### 4. RSOC Membership Terms


The IAB discussed whether to proceed with creating a mechanism for appointing people to RSOC whereby the RSOC members would have fixed, staggered terms.


The IAB agreed to wait until the RFC Editor Future Development Program is underway before revisiting this question. Cindy Morgan will add an item on this topic to the IAB’s 2020 retreat agenda.


### 5. Executive Session: Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) Appointments


Wes Hardaker, who is recused from this discussion, was not present on the teleconference. Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


