
Minutes of the 2019-08-07 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


##### Regrets:


* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Observers


None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-07-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-07-10)
* 2019-07-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-07-22)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-07-25 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-01)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-07-25: Martin to send message to architecture-discuss re closure of PrivSec Program.
* 2019-07-25: Martin to upload use-it-or-lose-it with draft-iab- filename.
* 2019-07-25: Jari to write up updated meeting cadence proposal.
* 2019-07-21: Martin to accept all comments in the current draft of the IAB job description and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2019-07-21: All to review “Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies” statement text.
* 2019-05-29: Jari to send updated text for the Internet Governance page on the IAB website to Cindy for posting.
* 2019-05-17: Stephen, Jari, Brian, Ted to identify IAB actions related to changing the Internet threat model.
* 2019-02-06: Mark to take pen on legislator version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-07-25: Brian to send message to architecture-discuss re closure of Stackevo Program.
* 2019-07-21: Alissa to notify Ted & Stephen when final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Christian to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF.
* 2019-05-17: Ted to write blog post inviting the community to come to the IAB with new work proposal.
* 2019-02-06: Melinda to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send “Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies” statement to Greg Wood for editorial review.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to adopt draft-nottingham-for-the-users on the IAB stream.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis out for community review.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-rfc7500-bis.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on renewing IETF liaison position to ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG).
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on IETF delegate to the ICANN NomCom.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to update IAB calendars with updated meeting cadence.


### 2. Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies


Alissa Cooper suggested asking Greg Wood to review the draft IAB statement on “Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies” with an eye towards whether the language makes sense to an external audience. Cindy Morgan will ask Greg to review the document, and if there are no substantial changes, she will start an e-vote to approve the text.


### 3. draft-nottingham-for-the-users, The Internet is for End Users


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote on whether to adopt draft-nottingham-for-the-users on the IAB stream.


### 4. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis, Defining the Role and Function of IETF Protocol Parameter Registry Operators


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote on whether to send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis out for community review.


### 5. draft-iab-rfc7500-bis, Principles for Operation of Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Registries


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-rfc7500-bis for publication on the IAB stream.


### 6. IETF liaison position to ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG)


Cindy Morgan will send e-vote on whether to renew the IETF liaison position to ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG).


### 7. IETF Delegate to ICANN NomCom (Executive Session)


The IAB discussed the IETF Delegate to the ICANN NomCom in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote to approve the IETF delegate to the ICANN NomCom.


### 8. Upcoming Meetings


The IAB agreed that they did not need to hold a meeting on 2019-08-14. The next IAB meeting will be on 2019-08-21.


