
Minutes of the 2019-03-28 IAB Business Meeting, Prague
------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kuehlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Suzanne Woolf


#### Guests:


* Ari Keränen, Thing-to-Thing RG Chair
* Carsten Bormann, Thing-to-Thing RG Chair
* Olaf Kolkman, Internet Society


#### Regrets:


* Gabriel Montenegro


### 2. IRTF Review: T2TRG


Carsten Bormann and Ari Keränen updated the IAB on the current activities of the Thing-to-Thing Research Group. The current scope of the T2TRG includes:


* Open research issues in turning a true “Internet of Things” into reality
	+ Internet where low-resource nodes (“things”, “constrained nodes”) can communicate among themselves and with the wider Internet
* Focus on issues with opportunities for IETF standardization
	+ Start at the IP adaptation layer
	+ End at the application layer with architectures and APIs for communicating and making data and management functions, including security


T2TRG work overlaps with IETF work in the CORE WG (protocol engineering for RESTful environments) and LWIG WG (informational guidance for implementers).


Completed work includes:


* “State-of-the-Art and Challenges for the Internet of Things Security” draft done (RFC editor queue); “RESTful Design for IoT” getting ready for publication
* Work on IoT Semantic/Hypermedia Interoperability (WISHI): original workshop in 2017, 5 hackathons, +20 virtual meetings
* Coordinating with other SDOs on IETF IoT technologies (OCF, OMA SpecWorks, W3C; now OneDM)
* Explored range of topics: hypermedia, semantic interop, edge computing & IoT, co-existence, {automated, lightweight, next steps in} security


Potential future work items include:


* Work on IoT Semantic/Hypermedia Interoperability (WISHI)
	+ Continue semantics/hypermedia exploration
	+ WISHI notes: series of smaller documents on specific topics from WISHI discussion (e.g., terminology)
	+ Interacting with One Data Model group & relevant SDOs
* Transfer CoRAL specs to WG docs; continue work on exploring CoRAL-based applications
	+ Hypermedia meetings
* Starting L3 activity; finding ways to support L2 work too


Carsten Bormann noted that it was very helpful for T2TRG to have a meeting the Friday before the IETF Hackathon, as it allowed people to shape the work they would do at the Hackathon.


### 3. How the IAB uses its communications channels


The IAB deferred this conversation to email.


### 4. RSOC Membership (Executive Session)


The membership of the RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC) was discussed in an executive session. Mark Nottingham will replace Robert Sparks as one of the IAB representatives to the RSOC.


### 5. Retreat Agenda


Cindy Morgan reported that she expects to have the hotel reservations link ready by the end of the first week of April.


Stephen Farrell asked that people include their names when they add new potential topics to the the retreat wiki page.


Mark Nottingham suggested that it would be good if the IAB could spend some time together in Reykjavik outside of the meeting room.


### 6. IAB Liaison to IESG


Wes Hardaker will be the IAB liaison to the IESG.


### 7. RSSAC root server metrics


The IETF liaison to the ICANN RSSAC asked the IAB if they have any input to provide on the effort to propose a set of metrics by which both the root server system and individual root server operators may be evaluated. Brian Trammell agreed to draft text for a proposed response back to RSSAC.


