
Minutes of the 2019-06-26 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* None


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-06-12 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-06-12)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 105


Cindy Morgan asked IAB members to sign up for BOF and Proposed RG coverage for IETF 105 in the wiki.


The IAB agreed to invite the RSOC to join them for an executive session on Monday morning at IETF 105. Ted Hardie will extend the invitation to the RSOC.


Colin Perkins will propose an IRTF RG to review during the Thursday morning session at IETF 105.


Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads to let her know if their Programs are planning to meet no later than Friday, 2019-06-28.


### 3. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7500-bis


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7500-bis on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will ask the authors to submit a new version of the document with a draft-iab- filename.


The IAB agreed that this document is ready for community review once it has been submitted with a draft-iab- filename.


### 4. draft-flanagan-fiftyyears


Via e-vote, the IAB agreed to adopt draft-flanagan-fiftyyears on the IAB stream.


### 5. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that it currently looks like the ESCAPE workshop will have 20+ attendees. Invitations have been sent to the speakers, and the program committee is putting together the agenda.


### 6. Trust in Internet Entities Statements


The IAB discussed the draft text for the IAB statement on “Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies.” The IAB agreed to try to finalize the text at or before IETF 105.


### 7. Plenary Planning Program Update


Alissa Cooper asked the Plenary Planning Program to send her a  

description of the technical plenary session for IETF 105 to be  

included in the agenda.


### 8. Community Coordination Group Appointments


Via e-vote, the IAB unanimously approved reappointing Russ Housley and Barry Leiba to the Community Coordination Group for the 2019-2021 term.


### 9. IAB Job Description


The IAB agreed to solicit feedback from the IETF community on the IAB job description that is provided to NomCom. Martin Thomson will draft an email to send to the ietf@ietf.org mailing list.


### 10. IAB Comments on Evolving the Governance of the Root Server System


The IAB approved the text for a response to the public comments solicited on “[Evolving the Governance of the Root Server System](https://www.icann.org/public-comments/rss-governance-2019-05-23-en).” Ted Hardie will submit the comments on behalf of the IAB and send them to Cindy Morgan for posting on the IAB website.


### 11. Executive Session: RFC Editor Model plenary discussion


The IAB discussed planning for a plenary discussion on the RFC Editor Model in an executive session.


