
IAB Business Meeting: 2019-11-21, Singapore
-------------------------------------------


### 0. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Olaf Kolkman
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


#### Guests:


* Dino Farinacci
* Richard Li
* Scott Mansfield
* Sally Wentworth


### 1. Update on ITU-T Coordination: Network 2030 and the Future of IP


Richard Li and Dino Farinacci joined the IAB to talk about the ITU-T Focus Group on Network 2030. The goals of the focus group are:


* To study, review and survey existing technologies, platforms, and standards for identifying the gaps and challenges towards networks for the year 2030 and beyond,
* To formulate all aspects of Network 2030, including its vision, requirements, novel and forward-looking use cases, and so on and so forth, and
* To establish liaisons and relationships with other SDOs.


Richard Li suggested that there might be work for a new IRTF Research Group in this space.


The IAB will work with Scott Mansfield (IETF liaison to the ITU-T) to coordinate work between the IETF and the ITU-T effort for Network 2030.


### 2. Draft Description for an IAB Program on Resilience


Stephen Farrell asked the IAB to review the draft description for a potential IAB Program on Internet resilience. The Program description will be on the IAB’s agenda for the 2019-12-05 teleconference.


### 3. Follow up from ABCD / DOH Discussion


The IAB briefly discussed the Application Behavior Considering DNS (ABCD) BOF.


Wes Hardaker noted that he has been approached a couple of times this week by people asking if the IAB has a position on encrypted DNS. Jari Arkko agreed that the IAB probably has something to say about this.


