
Minutes of the 2019-01-16 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Robert Sparks


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Wes Hardaker
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that the IAB approved moving the teleconference originally scheduled for 2019-01-30 to 2019-01-23.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-01-09 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-01-09)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–



```
4 IRTF docs went to RFC Editor this month, 2 were published last month, 
and 2 more are close. 

One new group will become Proposed before IETF 104, COINS, on computing 
in the network.  It is proposed by Marie-José Montpetit and Eve 
Schooler.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN liaison report - up to January 16, 2019

As can be expected, the holiday season was quiet.

The most important announcement is probably the public comment period
that has been started on the ICANN FY 2020 budget.

https://www.icann.org/public-comments/fy20-budget-2018-12-17-en

There's also public comment open on the strategic plan:

https://www.icann.org/public-comments/strategic-plan-2018-12-20-en

and a minor change to the IANA naming function contract (main point is
to include SLA by modifable reference rather than to include them into
the contract):

https://www.icann.org/public-comments/iana-naming-amend-2019-01-07-en

The Board is meeting for a retreat in LA 1 1/2 weeks from now. I expect
to be there.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 16 January 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 98% of processing goal times for November 2018 monthly 
statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
- 2 new IANA Specialist have been hired, both start mid-January 2019.  
In addition a new Cryptographic Key Manager has been hired and starts 
the beginning of February 2019.
 
- Waiting for response from IDNA expert regarding posting of revised 
tables.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE

* RFC Format testing

The RPC continues to work through testing the tools released by the 
developers. 

The PDF formatter is currently capable of creating PDF, but the 
requirement for PDF/A-3 is proving to be more challenging. The RSE is in 
discussions with Adobe to determine whether or not Adobe tools or ones 
from their partners will be best, and if licenses for those tools might 
be donated to the RFC Editor by Adobe. 

See https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan for 
information on the expected release schedule for the various tools.

* Developing a different satisfaction survey

After discussions with the RSOC, the RSE will be sending out an 
announcement and request for feedback to the community regarding 
starting a new satisfaction survey process. The initial experiment will 
involve the use of SurveyMonkey and be limited to a small number of 
questions. Response to the survey is entirely optional and does not 
impact the publication of RFCs. 

  - Did the editing services provided by the RFC Editor improve the 
quality of your document? [Yes | No | Didn't notice]

  - What one thing would make the editing process easier or more 
effective? [open]

  - May we contact you? [Yes | No] 

* Fifty Years of RFCs

The RSE has posted a revised draft to mark the fiftieth year of 
publishing RFCs to the datatracker. Community feedback suggests more 
information on Jon Postel's role is needed, and Steve Crocker, Vint 
Cert, and Dave Crocker are working to expand that text. An updated draft 
is expected later in January, and that draft will likely be the one to 
go to the IAB for consideration as an IAB stream document.

RPC

* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

The RPC did not meet the SLA in Q4. This was not unexpected, as 
significant resources have been directed to testing format tools and 
considering the future publication process in the v3 era. 

From the reports page:

2018 notes: 208 RFCs were published; 35% of these were associated with a 
cluster. 98% of the documents were published within Tier 2 goals. 2018 
has been a very busy year, even though the submission and publication 
rates were low. For example, the team has made ISE transitional updates, 
taken on additional tasks regarding YANG (format checks), experimented 
with AUTH48 using GitHub, started using id2xml as part of our production 
process, and tested XMLv3-related tools and held various discussions 
throughout.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement


The IAB discussed the potential statement on “Trust in Internet Entities.” Christian Huitema and Martin Thomson agreed to provide comments on the current text.


### 4. draft-iab-path-signals


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-path-signals as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 5. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the ESCAPE Workshop program committee is still looking for a venue.


### 6. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that Jari Arkko sent out text with a potential reframing of the DEDR workshop proposal. The IAB discussed the updated text.


Christian Huitema noted that the Internet Society is planning a workshop on a related topic for 22 March 2019 in Prague. Karen O’Donoghue said that she would forward information on the ISOC workshop to the IAB.


Christian Huitema suggested that the IAB might want to hold a BOF or side meeting at IETF 104 to discuss this topic.


Jari Arkko suggested that the IAB take a step back and find out more about the planned ISOC workshop before proceeding with this in the IAB. This item will be on the agenda for the next IAB teleconference on 23 January 2019.


### 7. Transport innovation and congestion control


Christian Huitema observed that transport innovation is good, but it bypasses current checks and balances, so there is a theoretical possibility that it will lead to a congestion collapse. He wondered if the IAB should endorse the idea of some kind of traffic shaping like AQM.


Brian Trammell said that it would be nice if the IAB could point to reasons why we don’t need to worry about deploying congestion control at Internet scale, but that he was not aware of any measurement work that would support that case. Brian suggested asking the ICCRG if they have any measurement data on this topic.


After a brief discussion, Brian Trammell agreed to draft an email to the ICCRG and the Transport Area Directors about transport innovation and congestion control.


### 8. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that a plenary on privacy is planned for Prague. The Plenary Planning Program is working to schedule tech chats with potential speakers.


### 9. ITU-T update to ENUM Procedures


Ted Hardie asked the IAB for a volunteer to work with Marco Hogewoning on a submission to the ITU-T about the proposed updates to the ENUM Procedures. There was not an immediate volunteer; the IAB agreed to take the discussion to email.


### 10. Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues


The following items were discussed in an executive session:


The IAB approved adding Xiaodong Lee to the Plenary Planning Program.


The IAB approved appointing Warren Kumari to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group.


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees and the IRTF Chair.


