
Minutes of the 2019-05-01 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* None


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


– 2019-04-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-04-10)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


– 2019-04-17 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-04-17)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


The IAB agreed to set the deadline to submit position papers for the ESCAPE workshop as Monday, 2019-06-03 and issue invitations by Monday, 2019-06-10.


Mark Nottingham will add the deadlines to the call for papers text and send it to Cindy Morgan for distribution on the mailing lists by 2019-05-03.


IAB and IESG members who want to attend the workshop will be strongly encouraged to submit position papers.


The IAB discussed a potential blog post about the ESCAPE workshop. Mark Nottingham will incorporate the changes suggested to date and send the updated text out to the IAB for review. The goal is to have the blog post published about a week after the call for papers is sent.


### 3. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that Nokia has organized a room block at a local hotel for the DEDR workshop. Given the tight deadline to make reservations, Ted will follow up with the people who have submitted papers for the workshop now and let them know about the hotel arrangements.


Cindy Morgan will work with the DEDR workshop program committee to schedule a conference call to review the submissions.


### 4. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


Melinda Shore reported that she is working to incorporate Wes Hardaker’s comments on the initial draft of the protocol designer version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement.


Mark Nottingham reported that he plans to take another pass at the legislator version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement before the IAB retreat.


### 5. IAB Retreat Planning


The IAB reviewed the agenda for the IAB retreat. Cindy Morgan will update the agenda based on the discussion.


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the deadline to make hotel reservations is 2019-05-01.


Jari Arkko suggested that for each agenda item, a few IAB members would make written contributions prepared in advance, in a manner similar to how we prepare for workshops.


Alissa Cooper requested that people send their discussion materials for the retreat at least 48 hours in advance so that people have time to review them.


### 6. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis-02


The IAB deferred the decision on whether to send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis out for community review to give the discussion on draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis that is happening on the IASA2 list time to converge; depending on the outcome of that discussion, the IAB might want to progress these two documents in parallel.


### 7. Revised Operating Instructions for e164.arpa (ENUM)


The IAB approved co-signing the announcement about the revised operating instructions for e164.arpa (ENUM) modulo an adjustment that the signature be “Ted Hardie, for the IAB” rather than “Ted Hardie, IAB Chair.” Ted will follow up with Marco Hogewoning and send the final text to Cindy Morgan for posting on the IAB website.


### 8. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that she has scheduled a tech chat on privacy for 2019-05-08.


### 9. Executive Session: Community Coordination Group Appointments


The IAB appointments to the Community Coordination Group was discussed in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: List Management


The management of IAB lists was discussed in an executive session. Ted Hardie will act as sergeant-at-arms for the IAB lists.


### 11. Executive Session: RSOC recommendation for the ongoing maintenance of the new canonical RFC format grammar


The RSOC’s recommendation for the ongoing maintenance of the new canonical RFC format grammar was discussed in an executive session.


