
Minutes of the 2019-02-13 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell (incoming IAB)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor)
* Wes Hardaker (incoming IAB)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li (incoming IAB)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Alexa Morris
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to respond to the thread on the IAB list about selecting a time for conference calls after IETF 104.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-02-06 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-02-06)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB 
13 Feb 2019

1.  2019 Action Plan

The Internet Society is currently executing on the 2019 Action Plan that 
was previously published online. This plan provides a high level 
overview of all the activities planned for the year. 
https://www.internetsociety.org/action-plan/2019/

2.  Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium

The 26th Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium will 
be happening 24-27 February in San Diego. It once again features 
published academic research (89 papers this year) along with four 
workshops (Usable Security and Privacy (USEC), Measurements 
Measurements, Attacks, and Defenses for the Web (MADWeb), Decentralised 
IoT Systems and Security (DISS), and Binary Analysis Research (BAR)). We 
also expect to inaugurate an NDSS Test of Time Award this year 
recognizing research that was published 10 or more years ago at NDSS 
that had a substantial impact. The draft program is available here: 
https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-program/ndss-symposium-2019-program/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


Ted Hardie asked if ISOC needs anything from the IAB for the workshop planned for Prague on the current state of the Internet economy. Karen O’Donoghue will ask Mat Ford and get back to the IAB.


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to February 12, 2019

This report covers the activity seen by this IETF liaison to ICANN in 
January 2019.

The main ICANN activity [the liaison] participated in was the Board 
retreat in Los Angeles, Jan 25-27.

Hot topics
-------------
- Strategic plan: Now that we have one, the board is eager to see it 
  turned into concrete activities. This will be a topic in Kobe.
- ePDP on WHOIS: there's signs that consensus is forthcoming, but no 
  official final report has been delivered yet.
- Future governance of DNS Root Services (RSSAC 037-038): An approach to 
  "how to get there" has been written up by ICANN staff and shared with 
  RSSAC. Still to be discussed in the Board and its technical committee.
- As usual, a lot of reviews are in progress in various stages. CCT 
  review -- https://www.icann.org/resources/reviews/specific-reviews/cct 
  -- is one of them. The board is in the process of evaluating its 
  recommendations - recommendations don’t come with guesses as to size, 
  cost or complexity, so there's still some work to do here before one 
  can say "yes", "no", or "yes, if we implement it this way".

Next meeting: ICANN general meeting in Kobe, Japan - March 7-15.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


Harald Alvestrand will send a link to the draft report on ePDP out to the IAB.


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 13 February 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for December 2018 monthly 
  statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
  goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
  and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
  experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/
  performance/ietf-statistics
 
- The annual review of processing protocol parameter related requests, a 
  deliverable in the annual SLA, has been completed.  The confidential 
  SOC2 report, prepared by RSM, has been provided to the IETF Leadership 
  for its review.  There were no exceptions related to the delivery of
  the protocol parameters function.
 
Other News:
 
- Waiting for response from IDNA expert regarding posting of revised 
  tables.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE
* RFC Format 
Several milestones have been met in the format project over the last 
month. The RPC has signed off on testing the new format tools, and the 
RSE is working with Robert Sparks and Russ Housley to determine the next 
steps for the community with regards to testing. Work is also underway 
to develop an xml2rfc v3 tutorial for IETF 104. 

In addition to the above, the IETF LLC has asked the RSOC to consider 
whether there are any concerns regarding a potential donation from 
Callas Software for a tool that will allow the creation of PDF/A-3 
files. Callas Software has offered to donate the necessary tools with 
the provisions that these tools will only be used by the RFC Editor 
during the RFC publication process, and that Callas can state that we 
are using their software. There are very few tools that create PDF/A-3 
files, and Callas is an active member of the PDF Consortium, giving them 
a strong background for the tools the RFC Editor needs.

* Issues in the Historical Record
Darius Kazemi, author of the blog “365 RFCs”, has discovered some 
interesting and challenging discrepancies in the early RFCs. Initial 
issues include: discovery of the “missing” title page of RFC 2, and two 
documents purporting to be RFC 32. Resolving these discrepancies has 
become its own project, bringing in early day participants in the pre-
IETF universe including Steve Crocker, Vint Cerf, Bob Kahn, John 
Klensin, Jake Feinler, Bob Metcalfe, and several others. 

For the issue regarding the re-discovered title page for RFC 2, the RFC 
Editor will correct the metadata in their database with the correct 
title. No other changes will be made.

For the issue around the multiple RFC 32s, the RFC Editor record 
indicates that the RFC 32 written by Jerry Cole is the “correct” version 
as far as the RFC Editor archive indicates. The alternate RFC 32, 
written by Dietrich Vedder, is referred to in a small number of later 
RFCs as RFC32, thus clouding the issue. The desire at this point is to 
re-publish the Vedder document in the Independent Submission series (as 
this is very much a pre-stream document) with a foreword clarifying why 
the document is being published today, thus giving it its own RFC 
number, and then submitting errata against those RFCs that point to the 
"wrong" RFC 32. There remains an open question regarding the copyright 
for the work, and discussions will happen with the IETF LLC to determine 
whether republishing at this time is possible with appropriate (and 
unusual) copyright provisions.

* Fifty Years of RFCs
The RSE has posted a revised draft to mark the fiftieth year of 
publishing RFCs to the datatracker. Community feedback suggests more 
information on Jon Postel's role is needed, and Steve Crocker, Vint 
Cert, and Dave Crocker are working to expand that text. This 
conversation is ongoing.

RPC
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/
From the reports page:
Q1 2019 notes: As can be seen in Figure 1, publications have been slow 
so far this year. We partially attribute this to the number of clustered 
documents currently working their way through the queue. Of the 
documents currently in active states, 46% are part of a cluster; in 
particular, 63% of the documents in AUTH48 are part of a cluster. On 
average, 33% of the documents published per year are part of a cluster.

Figure 2 shows that document submissions are on the rise. This is 
shaping up to be the RPC’s toughest year yet, as it appears that a) we 
are experiencing the usual Q1 document surge associated with AD 
turnover, b) the record-breaking cluster 238 will soon be released into 
the EDIT queue, and XMLv3-related tasks are at an all-time high as the 
RPC prepares to transition to XMLv3 during this calendar year.

The RPC has also completed a data cleanup project so that all "never 
issued" values are handled in a consistent manner and made errata in 
JSON format available to public.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed date options for their 2019 retreat. Noting that there does not appear to be an option that would result in perfect face-to-face attendance, the IAB decided to attempt to minimize absences at the retreat and travel time for people also planning to attend the QUIC interim meeting by proceeding with a retreat in Europe for two days around 15-17 May. Cindy Morgan will work with the Secretariat meeting planners and come back with options for the IAB.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 104


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 104.


Ted Hardie suggested that the IAB might want to review the Thing-to-Thing Research Group or the Quantum Internet Proposed Research Group at IETF 104. Colin Perkins will follow up with Allison Mankin about the IRTF review.


Cindy Morgan asked Program Leads who are planning to hold Program meetings at IETF 104 to let her know as soon as possible.


### 5. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that one of the ART Area Directors will likely be able to attend the ESCAPE workshop if it is held right before IETF 105 in an adjacent location.


The current plan is to discuss ESCAPE during the DISPATCH session at IETF 104, with the anticipation that they will request a BOF at IETF 105.


### 6. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Ted Hardie sent out updated text for the DEDR Workshop call for papers on 11 February 2019; he noted that he has not seen any further comments.


The IAB discussed timing for the workshop. Ted Hardie will work with Cindy Morgan to send out a Doodle poll to select dates for the workshop in June 2019.


### 7. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


Melinda Shore reported that Wes Hardaker has agreed to help with the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement that is aimed at protocol designers.


Mark Nottingham reported that work on the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement that is aimed at legislators is still in progress.


### 8. EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation


Gabriel Montenegro asked the IAB to select a new IAB liaison shepherd for the EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation before IETF 104, as the IAB has to respond to the “Call for Applications for the Renewal of the Membership” by 15 March 2019. It would be good to have the new liaison shepherd assigned before that deadline so that the context is not lost when Gabriel steps down from the IAB at IETF 104.


There was not an immediate volunteer. Ted Hardie agreed to attend the planning calls with Gabriel Montenegro and the liaison managers in the interim, but asked that this be revisited at IETF 104, as it would be good if the liaison shepherd was based in Europe.


### 9. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that the potential speaker for IETF 104 was not being responsive; after some discussion, the IAB agreed that Melinda should let him know that he has until 19 February 2019 to confirm he can make it.


### 10. Executive Session: Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues


#### 10.1. Privacy and Security Program Membership


In an executive session, the IAB approved adding incoming Security Area Director Roman Danyliw to the Privacy and Security Program.


#### 10.2. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IAB voted on the IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session. Alissa Cooper and Suzanne Woolf recused themselves from the discussion and voting.


### 11. Executive Session: Appeal to make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent


The appeal to make the procedures related to the Independent Submission Stream more transparent was discussed in an executive session.


