
Minutes of the 2019-05-29 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Karen O’Donoghue (Internet Society Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mark Nottingham
* Melinda Shore
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-05-01 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-05-01)
* 2019-05-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-05-08)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Sergeant-at-arms for IAB lists


Stephen Farrell agreed to act as sergeant-at-arms for the IAB lists for the next six months.


### 3. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that the hosts at Nokia have been working to set up the logistics for the workshop.


Jari Arkko sent out a proposal for a more detailed workshop agenda. Alissa Cooper asked if everyone listed on the agenda will be attending the workshop. Ted Hardie replied that some of the authors will not be able to attend. Cindy Morgan will send the list of workshop attendees out to the workshop mailing list.


The workshop program committee will send out a call for volunteers to be panelists at the workshop.


### 4. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported via email prior to the start of the meeting that submissions have started to come in for the ESCAPE workshop.


### 5. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


The IAB agreed to defer the discussion about adopting draft-nottingham-for-the-users on the IAB stream until their 2019-06-12 teleconference so that the notification of potential adoption could be sent to the architecture-discuss mailing list first.


### 6. Trust in internet entities statements


Both the protocol designer version and the legislator version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statements are still in progress. The discussions are continuing via email.


### 7. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore sent an email to the Plenary Planning Program asking for plenary-related questions to be included in the meeting survey.


Ted Hardie asked Mirja Kühlewind to report back via email about whether the IESG is okay with the proposal to have separate plenaries, with a one-hour technical plenary immediately followed by a 90-minute administrative plenary.


### 8. Executive Session: U.S. Government Export Restrictions Against Huawei


The United States Government export restrictions against Huawei were discussed in an executive session.


