
Minutes of the 2019-10-16 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Erik Nordmark
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Mark Nottingham
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson


##### Observers:


* Bob Hinden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No changes were made to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-09-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-09-18)
* 2019-10-02 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-10-03)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-10-02: Jeff Tantsura to invite Dino Farinacci to join the Thursday IAB meeting at IETF 106.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-09-18: IAB to discuss potential DOH workshop on the mailing list and identify chair(s) and a Program Committee.
* 2019-08-21: Ted Hardie to follow up with Stephan Wenger re renewal of liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG). Update expected after SC29 meeting on 2019-10-12
* 2019-07-21: Alissa Cooper to notify Ted Hardie & Stephen Farrell when final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Christian Huitema to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF.
* 2019-02-06: Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-10-16: Cindy Morgan to start a thread about the IAB agenda at IETF 106.
* 2019-10-16: Cindy Morgan to add DOH/DRAINS Workshop to IAB agenda at IETF 106.
* 2019-10-16: Cindy Morgan to start e-vote on the ISE appointment.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report — October 2019

Encryption Briefing scheduled for 25 October in Washington, DC
The Internet Society, in partnership with the Center for Democracy & 
Technology, LGBT Tech, and the Open Technology Institute at New America 
will host a public event to help people understand the day-to-day impact 
of encryption and how to make sure policies protect people, vulnerable 
communities, commerce and national security. This event is being hosted 
by the Washington, DC chapter of the Internet Society on Capitol Hill in 
Washington, DC and specifically targets congressional staff. Details can 
be found at: 
https://www.internetsociety.org/events/encryption-briefing/. 

NDSS 2020 Workshops announced
The Network and Distributed System Security Symposium has selected five 
workshops to be co-located with NDSS 2020 on 23 February 2020 in San 
Diego, CA. These workshops are: 

1) Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (BAR)
2) QUIC Privacy and Security Workshop (QUIPS)
3) Measurements, Attacks, and Defenses for the Web (MADWEB)
4) Decentralized IoT Systems and Security (DISS)
5) Learning from Authoritative Security Experiment Results Workshop 
   (LASER)
Please check the NDSS website (www.ndsssymposium.org) for updates on the 
calls for papers for each of these workshops.
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month encoding 11 October 2019.


# Research Groups

Ongoing discussion with proponents of the SMART activity about possible 
future IRTF work. Limited progress.

Seeking additional chairs MAPRG and CFRG.

Virtual interim meetings help by QIRG, COIN, and NMRG.

Recommend COIN for IAB review during Singapore IETF, since it's due for 
review to decide whether to approve as a full RG.


# ANRP

Call for nominations for ANRP 2020 is now open; nominations due by 24 
November 2019.


# ANRW

Held initial planning call for ANRW 2020. Chairs will put together TPC, 
CFP, timeline. Expect structure to be very similar to previous years.


# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology in IRSG final poll; revised to address 
comments from Stephen Farrell

draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster completed IRSG final poll; awaiting update to 
address minor comments

draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines completed IRSG final poll; 
awaiting IESG conflict review

draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 recently updated; will go to IRSG review shortly

Eight RFC errata awaiting review, relating to four RFCs produced by 
CFRG. 


# Other

Discussions with IESG and IRSG around policy for cross-stream RFC status 
updates, leading to https://irtf.org/policies/cross-stream-updates.html 

IRTF Chair considering invitation to UN IGF in Berlin.

Discussion ongoing with Richard Li re NewIP work (see liaison from ITU-
T).
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to October 16, 2019

This report contains ICANN matters observed by the IETF liaison to the 
Board for the period of September 13 to October 16, 2019.

No meetings in the period, so no huge things to report.

Organizational matters
- The whole organization was sad to learn of the passing of Tarek Kamel, 
ICANN Senior Vice President of Government and Intergovernmental 
Organization (IGO) Engagement and an Internet pioneer. He will be 
remembered, and missed.

Hot topics
- GDPR aka EPDP phase 2 - work is ongoing, the WG still hasn’t settled 
down on what model they will recommend. In fact, they have sent a letter 
to the Board asking for some clarifications with regard to “risk 
appetite” of ICANN.
- RSSAC / Root operators - the Board has received public comment on the 
implementation plan for the GWG - the group that will create the final 
governance plan in consultation with the community. The revised plan is 
expected to be approved in Montreal at ICANN 66; IAB is expected to 
contribute representatives to this WG.
- Internationalization and the Root Zone - the RZ-LGR panel has 
delivered its recommendations for application of the RZ-LGR ruleset in 
the root zone. This will be processed further in Montreal.

There are many other topics where the main thing to report is that 
“people are preparing for meetings in Montreal”, but few with specific 
actions that make sense to report here.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 16 October 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for September 2019 monthly 
statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/
performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
IANA Annual Engagement survey closed on 11 October 2019.  We hope to 
have results by the end of the year.
 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE/RPC
* Format
The announcement went out to the ietf@ietf.org and rfc-interest@ietf.org 
mailing lists, plus the IETF Facebook page, that the first v3 RFC was 
published on 7 October 2019. See https://www.rfc-editor.org/pipermail/
rfc-interest/2019-October/010850.html

This is an enormous milestone. Work remains to create the -bis documents 
as promised in the the original format specification RFCs, in 
particularly the xml2rfcv3 schema (7991bis). Heather Flanagan holds the 
pen for that document.


* RFC Editor Function discussions
Heather Flanagan, RSE, has facilitated two of the three virtual interim 
meetings regarding the process around which the future of the RFC Editor 
model might be discussed. One more virtual interim is scheduled for 
Friday, 18 October 2019 at 02:00 UTC. See the RSE for reports from the 
meetings already held, as well as slides and WebEx recordings.

https://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/doku.php?id=interim

RPC

* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Note that the SLA is currently on hold during the format implementation 
effort in Q4 2019. 

Regarding the format work, the team is working with the developer to 
understand how best to get  the desired format within specific RFCs-to-
be.

The RPC will be meeting with the RSE to discuss RSE transition in early 
October.


RSOC (in general):
- The RFP for Temporary RFC Series Project Manager was posted to the 
IETF announce list on 4 October 2019. The closing date for submission of 
proposals is Monday, November 11, 2019.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Heather Flanagan noted that the 31 documents published before the SLA was suspended did meet the SLA.


Heather Flanagan reported that she is hoping the publish an update to the RFC Style Guide (draft-flanagan-7322bis) before the end of the year.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 106


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 106.


Harald Alvestrand asked whether the IAB would want to spend any time with the liaisons at IETF 106; the IAB said they would get back to Harald about that.


Cindy Morgan will start a thread on the IAB list about the IAB agenda at IETF 106.


### 4. Possible DOH/DRAINS Workshop


Wes Hardaker noted that the general consensus on the IAB mailing list was to wait until after the ABCD BOF in Singapore to discuss whether to hold a DOH/DRAINS workshop.


Jari Arkko noted that the IAB has other options besides holding a workshop, e.g. an IAB document.


Stephen Farrell suggested that the topic might benefit from being discussed in person at IETF 106, so that IAB members could come to a better understanding amongst themselves on the various facets of the topic.


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to add this topic to their Sunday agenda at IETF 106, as well as an additional topic for the Friday wrap-up meeting with the IESG on this as it relates to the ABCD BOF.


### 5. RSE and RFC Editor Model Next Steps


Cindy Morgan reported that the final interim meeting to discuss the process for evolving the RSE Model is scheduled for 0200 UTC on 2019-10-18. The RSEME session at IETF 106 is being planned for the Tuesday morning open session/side meeting time in order to minimize conflicts.


The RFP for the temporary RFC Series Project Manager went out on 2019-10-04. Proposals are due 2019-11-11.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed that they did not need to hold a meeting on 2019-10-23. The next IAB meeting will be on 2019-10-30. Cindy Morgan noted that summer time ends in Europe between now and then, so the call will be one hour earlier for those in Europe.


### 7. Independent Submissions Editor Appointment


The IAB discussed the Independent Submissions Editor appointment in an executive session.


