
Minutes of the 2019-10-30 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Stephen Farrell
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Zhenbin Li
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Ted Hardie noted that Wes Hardaker’s presence would be necessary for the discussion about the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments and suggested that the item might need to come back to a future agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-10-16 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-10-16)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### In Progress:


* 2019-09-18: IAB to discuss potential DOH workshop on the mailing list and identify chair(s) and a Program Committee.
* 2019-08-21: Ted Hardie to follow up with Stephan Wenger re renewal of liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG).
* 2019-07-21: Alissa Cooper to notify Ted Hardie & Stephen Farrell when final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Christian Huitema to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF.
* 2019-02-06: Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-10-30: IAB to review LLC COI policy.
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to add an item on the COI policy to the IAB Sunday agenda at IETF 106.
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Harald Alvestrand regarding meeting with the ICANN liaison cluster at IETF 107/ Vancouver.
* 2019-10-30: Ted Hardie to reach out to Karen O’Donoghue to see if there are any ISOC activities on consolidation that the IAB should be briefed on at IETF 106.
* 2019-10-30: Ted Hardie to follow up on the IAB list regarding BOF/PRG coverage at IETF 106.
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to send approval announcement for draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis (after checking current version vs RFC editor notes).
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to send approval announcement for draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis (after checking current version vs RFC editor notes).
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to send approval announcement draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis for (after checking current version vs RFC editor notes).
* 2019-10-30: Ted Hardie to follow up with Alissa Cooper re proposed change to draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis. (Once this is cleared, the document is approved.)
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to update the CFN text for the ISOC BOT appointment and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2019-10-30: Ted Hardie & Cindy Morgan to follow up with Adrian Farrel regarding the ISE appointment.
* 2019-10-30: Cindy Morgan to create a mailing list for discussion of the ICANN GWG appointments.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 106


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 106.


Harald Alvestrand had previously asked whether the IAB would want to meet with the ICANN liaisons at IETF 106; the IAB agreed to wait until IETF 107 for that. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Harald.


Ted Hardie will reach out to Karen O’Donoghue to see if there are any ISOC activities on consolidation that the IAB should be briefed on at IETF 106.


### 3. BOF and Proposed Research Groups Coverage at IETF 106


The IAB discussed their coverage for BOFs and Proposed Research Groups <<https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/Bof106>>.


Ted Hardie will follow up on the IAB list with people who were not able to attend the meeting to see if any of them are available to attend any of the sessions that do not currently have coverage.


### 4. Document status updates


#### 4.1. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis – Defining the Role and Function of IETF Protocol Parameter Registry Operators


The IAB approved draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


#### 4.2. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis – The RFC Series and RFC Editor


The IAB approved draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


#### 4.3. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis – Independent Submission Editor Model


The IAB approved draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


#### 4.4. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis – RFC Editor Model (Version 2)


The IAB approved draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis as an Informational document on the IAB stream pending a change to the text. Ted Hardie will follow up with Alissa Cooper to make sure that the proposed change does not conflict with her earlier edit.


### 5. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IAB reviewed the timeline and call for nomination text for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment. Cindy Morgan will update the text based on the discussion and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB deferred the question about whether they need to meet on 2019-11-06 to email, pending the outcome of the discussion about the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments.


### 7. Executive Session: Independent Submissions Editor Appointment


The IAB discussed the Independent Submissions Editor appointment in an executive session.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments


The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


