
Minutes of the 2019-02-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (Internet Society Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Incoming IAB:


* Wes Hardaker


##### Regrets:


* Stephen Farrell (incoming IAB)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Zhenbin Li (incoming IAB)


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on draft-nottingham-for-the-users was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-01-16 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-01-16)
* 2019-01-23 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-01-23)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis, The RFC Series and RFC Editor


The IASA2 Working Group requested publication of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis on the IAB Stream.


Alissa Cooper said that she did not think the document was ready to go out for community review yet because it includes actions for IASA, which is currently being redefined in draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4071bis. She said there is also some lack of clarity between draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4071bis and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis about where responsibilities lie, and that it would be better to have all of that clarified before proceeding to community review on draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis.


The IAB will review draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis and send comments back to the IASA2 Working Group by 2019-02-08.


### 3. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7500-bis, Principles for Operation of Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Registries


The IASA2 Working Group requested publication of draft-ietf-iasa2- rfc7500-bis on the IAB Stream.


Given the conversation on draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis above, the IAB agreed to wait on sending the document out for community review until the questions about draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4071bis and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis are resolved.


### 4. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement


After discussion, the IAB agreed to split the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement into two separate documents: one aimed at protocol designers, and one aimed at legislators. Melinda Shore will take the pen for the statement for protocol designers, and Mark Nottingham will take the pen for the statement for legislators.


### 5. ESCAPE Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the people working on the ESCAPE workshop are also considering requesting a BOF for IETF 105 in Montreal, in addition to the workshop.


Brian Trammel suggested that the workshop be held before the BOF, so that there would be time to include feedback from the workshop into the BOF. Mark Nottingham noted that the deadline to submit BOF proposals for IETF 105 is 2019-06-07, so they are looking at a mid-May timeframe for the workshop.


Alissa Cooper asked if any of the Applications and Real-Time ADs are following this work. Mark Nottingham replied that he has sent an inquiry to the ART ADs, and he will ask for help if he hasn’t had a response from them by 2019-02-08.


### 6. DEDR Workshop


Ted Hardie reported that he is still working to re-draft the call for papers for the DEDR Workshop.


### 7. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that the speaker who was invited for the IETF 104 plenary would not be able to attend the meeting; they are working with him to try and schedule him to speak at IETF 105 instead. With that, it is unlikely that there will be an IAB technical topic during the plenary at IETF 104.


Melinda Shore noted that she is still waiting to hear back on the agenda for IETF 104 to see if there is free time to schedule a speaker during non-plenary time. Alissa Cooper replied that the IESG has deferred making a decision on the schedule until after the deadline to submit WG session requests.


Melinda said that there is also a potential topic on cryptography and voting; she will send out a link to a video of a potential speaker.


### 8. IAB Chair Selection Committee


Gabriel Montenegro volunteered to serve as chair for the IAB Chair Selection Committee for 2019.


### 9. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


The IAB discussed how to proceed with draft-nottingham-for-the-users. Several people noted that the document might be most useful if it was progressed as an IETF consensus document, although getting IETF consensus might be challenging.


After discussion, the IAB agreed to send a note to the IETF discussion list saying that the IAB is considering adopting this work, and asking if people are interested in in progressing in the IETF stream instead. Mark Nottingham will make an editorial pass to clean up draft-nottingham-for-the-users, and draft text for the message to the IETF list.


### 10. Executive Session: Upcoming Appointments and Personnel Issues


The IAB discussed upcoming appointments to the Internet Society Board of Trustees and the IRTF Chair in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: Appeal to make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent


An appeal from to Shyam Bandyopadhyay make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent was discussed in an executive session. Alissa Cooper recused herself from the discussion. Jari Arkko, Ted Hardie, and Christian Huitema will review the appeal and propose a response to the IAB.


