
Minutes of the 2019-11-17 IAB Meeting, Singapore
------------------------------------------------


### 0. Attendance


#### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Olaf Kolkman (Internet Society)
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


### 1. draft-iab-for-the-users


The IAB discussed draft-iab-for-the-users. Mark Nottingham will update the version posted to the Datatracker and solicit feedback from the architecture-discuss, dispatch, saag, and gendispatch lists.


The goal is to publish this document before the IAB changeover in March 2020.


### 2. draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report


The IAB discussed draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report. Jari Arkko will publish the next revision with a draft-iab- filename, and Cindy Morgan will send out a message to the architecture-discuss list that the IAB is planning to discuss adoption of the document on the IAB stream at a future meeting.


### 3. draft-iab-escape-report


The IAB agreed to publish draft-iab-escape-report as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 4. Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed draft text for an IAB conflict of interest (COI) policy based on the [IETF LLC COI policy](https://www.ietf.org/about/administration/policies-procedures/conflict-interest/).


The IAB will send comments on the draft policy by 2019-12-01.


### 5. DOH/DRAINS workshop


The IAB decided to defer discussion about whether to hold a workshop on DOH until after the conclusion of the ABCD BOF.


Ted Hardie noted that the IAB might want to to say something here, regardless of whether they decide to hold a workshop. Several IAB members agreed, and will continue the discussion on the IAB mailing list. Brian Trammell will create a sub in the IAB Github repo to house work on this topic.


### 6. IAB Procedures


Ted Hardie noted that several current IAB members are planning to step down in March 2020. He asked the IAB to review the current IAB procedures to make sure that they reflect reality.


### 7. Private Wiki changes


The IAB discussed the ongoing project of moving information from the private wiki to to the public wiki.


Ted Hardie will review the CCG and RZERC appointment pages.


Cindy Morgan will update the mailing list page on the IAB website with a cross-check against the private wiki page.


Mark Nottingham will update the proposal for how to handle the rest of the private wiki pages.


