
Minutes of the 2019-02-27 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell (incoming IAB)
* Wes Hardaker (incoming IAB)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li (incoming IAB)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Colin Perkins (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Robert Sparks
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Guests:


* Aaron Falk (Plenary Planning Program)
* Greg Wood (Plenary Planning Program)


##### Observers:


* None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan announced that the URL for the internal IAB calendar will be changing soon; she will send out email with more details.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-02-06 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-02-06)
* 2019-02-13 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-02-13)


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to review the draft minutes from the IETF 104 BOF coordination call and send any comments to iesg-secretary@ietf.org.


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. draft-faltstrom-unicode11


The IAB discussed whether to send a note to the IESG about the importance of publishing draft-faltstrom-unicode11 and updating the Unicode IANA tables. The IAB decided not to send a note, but Alissa Cooper will raise the issue about updating the IANA tables as soon as possible in her IESG ballot for draft-faltstrom-unicode11.


### 3. Proposal for Architectural Discussion in (semi)-Plenary


Brian Trammell reported that the Plenary Planning Program has been considering different ways to have architectural discussions in a venue that will allow for cross-area context, similar to the “Technology Deep Dive – Modern Router Architecture” session on the IETF 104 agenda.


Aaron Falk added that one goal of this proposal would be to have a place to discuss issues that arise from the differences between architectural and operational perspectives. The ideal topics would be those that encourage participation from people who ordinarily would not come to the IETF.


Alissa Cooper observed that organizing such sessions would be just as much work as organizing a technical topic for the plenary, and noted that there have been problems balancing the ambitions of the Plenary Program with the resources available.


The Plenary Planning Program will continue to brainstorm about this.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 104


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 104.


Cindy Morgan will follow up with Karen O’Donoghue about inviting people from ISOC to give an update on ISOC’s planned consolidation activities and ISOC’s planned encryption activities.


Allison Mankin will invite the Thing-to-Thing Research Group chairs to the IAB Thursday morning meeting.


### 5. BOF and Proposed RG Coverage at IETF 104


The IAB began looking at BOF and proposed RG coverage at IETF 104. Ted Hardie asked if radical changes were expected between the preliminary and final agendas. Alissa Cooper replied that she was not sure yet; the topic is on the IESG’s agenda for their 2019-02-28 informal meeting.


The IAB will wait to confirm BOF and proposed RG coverage until after the final agenda is published.


### 6. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed their 2019 retreat. Cindy Morgan reported that there is not yet a proposal for the IAB to review, but they are looking for venues in Dublin and Warsaw, which were both listed as possible locations for the QUIC interim meeting that will take place the week after the meeting. Ted Hardie noted that QUIC is no longer considering Warsaw. The IAB decided to add Reykjavik to the list of cities under consideration, as several people are also planning to attend the RIPE meeting that will be held there the following week.


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to start thinking about potential guest speakers that the IAB might want to invite to the retreat.


### 7. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Cindy Morgan reported that they are waiting on responses to the poll to select dates for the DEDR workshop. Ted Hardie said that he had not seen the poll; given the low response rate so far, it is possible that the original message got caught in spam filters. Cindy Morgan will resend the link to the poll.


### 8. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


This agenda item was deferred until the next IAB teleconference on 2019-03-06.


### 9. EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation


Gabriel Montenegro reported that he and Ted Hardie met with Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky to discuss the EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation; they recommend renewing the IAB’s membership in the MSP.


Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote on whether to continue participation in the EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation.


### 10. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


This agenda item was deferred until the next IAB teleconference on 2019-03-06.


### 11. Question from ICANN regarding identifiers


The IAB discussed draft text for the IAB’s response to a question from ICANN regarding identifiers. Part of this discussion happened in executive session. The discussion will continue via email.


### 12. Appeal to make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent


The appeal to make the procedures related to the Independent Submission Stream more transparent was discussed in an executive session.


