
Minutes of the 2019-08-21 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mark Nottingham
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-07-25 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-01)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-08-07 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-08-07)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-rfc7500-bis.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis out for community review.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on whether to adopt draft-nottingham-for-the-users on the IAB stream.
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on renewing IETF liaison position to ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG).
* 2019-08-07: Cindy to send e-vote on IETF delegate to the ICANN NomCom.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-07-25: Brian to send message to architecture-discuss re closure of Stackevo Program.
* 2019-07-21: Alissa to notify Ted & Stephen when final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Mark to drive action to prune down the IAB communications channels.
* 2019-05-17: Christian to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF. (In Progress)
* 2019-05-17: Ted to write blog post inviting the community to come to the IAB with new work proposals.
* 2019-02-06: Melinda to take pen on protocol designer version of “Trust on Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-08-21: Cindy to send e-vote on approving draft-iab-fiftyyears as an Informational document on the IAB stream.
* 2019-08-21: Cindy to send approval announcement for draft-iab-rfc7500-bis.
* 2019-08-21: Cindy to send community review message for draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis.
* 2019-08-21: Cindy to send e-vote on approval of IAB Statement on Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies.
* 2019-08-21: Ted to follow up with Stephan Wenger re renewal of liaison relationship with ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG).
* 2019-08-21: Christian to take feedback to the RSOC re RSOC membership and adding stream manager liaisons to the RSOC.
* 2019-08-21: Alissa to ask Sean Turner to review 6635bis, 6548bis, and 4844bis from an IETF LLC perspective.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 9 August 2019.

# Research Groups

All groups except QIRG met at IETF 105. PEARG had a successful IAB 
review, and has now been approved as a full research group. HRPC has 
closed down the separate HR-RT review team and mailing list. Ongoing 
discussion with proponents of the SMART activity about possible future 
IRTF work.

# ANRP

Neta Rozen Schiff and Taejoong Chung gave their ANRP presentations 
during IRTF Open Meeting at IETF 105. Both very well received. Strong 
interactions with related IRTF participants and IETF working groups 
during the meeting. Greg Wood is preparing an IETF blog about the 
awards. 

# ANRW

ANRW 2019 took place co-located with IETF 105. Approximately 200 
registered attendees, and very full attendance throughout the day. 
Excellent papers and presentations. All papers, slides, and video 
recordings available open access with links from IRTF site. Corrected 
ANRW 2017 and 2018 proceedings to link to open access versions of papers 
via ACM Authorizer service, matching MoU with ACM. Greg Wood is in touch 
with the workshop co-chairs to produce a post for the IETF blog about 
the workshop.

Travel grant attendees had mixed success attending due to visa issues, 
but mostly due to time constraints. Schedule will need to be adjusted 
next year to avoid this issue. Wrap-up meeting identified good 
suggestions for other minor process improvements for next year. We 
expect to repeat the workshop co-located with IETF 108 in Madrid.

Rotated ANRW steering committee, appointing Phillipa Gill for a three 
year term.

ANRW puts pressure on the IETF agenda, both for IRTF RG meetings and to 
avoid conflicts with relevant IETF groups. Benefits of interaction 
between ANRW attendees and IETF/IRTF are believed to outweigh costs, but 
the scheduling conflicts are a concern. Any input on this to inform the 
planning for ANRW 2020 is welcomed.

# Documents and Errata

Drafts on draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines, draft-irtf-icnrg-
disaster, and draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology in IRSG review. The draft on 
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 is ready for IRSG review, pending nits and 
completion of the other reviews.

No new errata, but several issues raised by CFRG are awaiting review.

# Other

Continue to update website and resolve broken links.

IRSG reviewed and gave feedback on draft-kuehlewind-update-tag.

Began ongoing discussion with Grenville Armitage re potential diversity
travel grants for IRTF attendees, supported by Netflix.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to August 14, 2019

The month of July has been a slow month on the board, as expected, with 
this liaison being on vacation large chunks of the time. No news worth 
reporting.

The Board Technical Committee has continued its work on the “DNS 
evolution risk matrix”, but it is not yet ready to be presented to the 
board.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


Harald Alvestrand noted that the ICANN board will have a retreat at  

the end of August where they will select a new chair and a new vice  

chair.


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 21 August 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for both June 2019 and July 
2019 monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of 
processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has 
control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors 
or other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics 
 
Other News:
 
None to report
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report (Montreal IETF 105 meeting notes will be presented in 
September)
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE

* RFC Format status
The RPC is still expecting to be ready to publish RFCs in the v3 format 
is still on target for late August. 

* Fifty Years of RFCs
Draft-iab-fiftyyears went out for public comment through 7 August 2019. 
Few comments were comments were received. The RSE has requested the IAB 
consider approving the draft for publication.

* RPC resourcing
The IETF LLC has approved a short-term increase of 2 FTE for the RPC 
through the end of 2019. The RPC is still engaged in the search process 
to find suitable candidates.

* RSE role
The community and the RSOC are continuing to discuss the what the 
appropriate next steps are for defining and filling the RSE role after 
the current RSE’s contract concludes on 31 December 2019.

RPC

* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Q3 2019 notes: The SLA was met for Q2 2019. The submission rate was 
average. The publication rate is up compared with the previous four 
quarters.

The RPC continues to familiarize itself with the v3 vocabulary and what 
makes a “good” XMLv3 file, while also continuing to report bugs to the 
developer. The RPC is receiving feedback on sample v3 files from the 
xml2rfc-dev list.

* In-line errata
The RFC Editor will be making files available that show RFCs annotated 
with verified errata later this month. Each file will include the 
statement: "This is a purely informative rendering of an RFC that 
includes verified errata. This rendering may not be used as a 
reference.” 

* C238 - https://www.rfc-editor.org/cluster_info.php?cid=C238
The majority of C238 is expected to release in early August. This will 
drop 1275 pages into the RFC Editor queue (which is the majority, but 
not the entirety, of the cluster). These documents are being converted 
to the v3 format as part of their RFC Editor processing.

* C340 - https://www.rfc-editor.org/cluster_info.php?cid=C340
The RPC is actively working through a majority of cluster 340. 12 of the 
15 documents are being processed.


RSOC (in general):
- The RSOC chair will send an update shortly.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


Heather Flanagan noted that since Henrik Levkowetz is on holiday until 2019-08-31 and there two bugs in the new format tools that need to be fixed, the new format rollout is being pushed out to 2019-09-15. Heather will send a note about this to the community.


### 3. Document status updates


#### 3.1. draft-iab-fiftyyears


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote on whether to approve draft-iab-fiftyyears as an Informational document on the IAB stream.


#### 3.2. draft-iab-rfc7500-bis


Via e-vote, the IAB approved draft-iab-rfc7500-bis as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream.


#### 3.3. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis


Via e-vote, the IAB agreed to send draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send out the community review message.


#### 3.4. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


Via e-vote, the IAB adopted draft-nottingham-for-the-users on the IAB  

stream. Mark Nottingham will upload the next revision with a draft-  

iab- filename.


### 4. Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote to approve the text for the IAB statement on “Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies.”


### 5. IETF liaison position to ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG)


Via e-vote, the IAB agreed to renew the IETF liaison position with ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 and sub-orgs (JPEG and MPEG). Ted Hardie will follow up with Stephan Wenger to get the liaison reinstated.


### 6. IETF Delegate to ICANN NomCom


Via e-vote, the IAB selected Peter Koch as the IETF delegate to the 2020 ICANN NomCom.


### 7. RSE and RFC Editor Model Next Steps


Ted Hardie noted that there was a proposal to add the stream managers to the RSOC. Christian Huitema said that he had talked to Adrian Farrel (Independent Submissions Editor), and he said that he felt disconnected from what is happening in RSOC. He noted that the previous ISE served on the RSOC.


Martin Thomson noted that Nevil Brownlee had served on the RSOC as an individual, not as part of his role as the ISE.


Ted Hardie said that adding non-voting liaisons to the RSOC would be fine; however, given the ongoing discussion about how the RSE relates to the rest of the community, the IAB should be careful about adding the stream managers to the RSOC as full voting members, lest it be perceived as implying that the stream managers supervise the RSE.


Several IAB members noted that when recruiting new RSOC members, the IAB should try to get a variety of expertise, so that at least some members are familiar with the requirements of each of the four streams.


The IAB concluded that they support inviting stream managers (or a delegate thereof) as non-voting liaisons to the RSOC. They noted that these liaisons should work both ways, e.g. the IETF stream liaison informs the RSOC about IESG priorities, as well as informing the IESG about the RSOC’s work. Christian Huitema will take this feedback to the RSOC.


Christian Huitema reported that the RSOC is currently reviewing a revised SOW for a temporary RFC Series project manager to oversee the day-to-day tactical responsibilities while the community has a larger discussion about the evolution of the RSE role. The goal is to have that SOW to the IAB for review by 2019-08-26.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to hold a meeting on 2019-08-28 to discuss the forthcoming proposal from RSOC on the next steps for the RSE and RFC Editor Model as well as the updated SOW.


### 9. Progression of 6635bis, 6548bis, and 4844bis


Ted Hardie reported that Bob Hinden has asked about the plan for draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis, draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis, and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis. The general plan has been that they would be adopted onto the IAB stream and processed together; however, that has been delayed because of the other RFC Editor Model discussions. Bob suggested that the IAB simply process these with the IASA2 changes, since any broader change may take some time to complete.


Alissa Cooper replied that as currently written, 6635bis and 4844bis will not reflect the current reality when they are published, unrelated to any community discussions about evolving the RFC Editor model (e.g. the IETF LLC is likely to adopt a conflict of interest policy that applies to all contracts and employees that is different from the one currently in 6635bis).


Stephen Farrell said that he agreed with Alissa Cooper’s point, but noted that her concern is more about finishing the documents than it is about adopting them on the IAB stream. He asked whether the IAB should adopt the documents now, and then involve the community in the decision whether to progress the documents as is.


Alissa Cooper noted that for the other documents that came out of the IASA2 Working Group, a simple replacement of “IAOC” with “IETF LLC” was sufficient. However, this particular set of documents describes the way that that body (IAOC/IETF LLC) provides oversight, and thus may spark debate about whether new structures are needed.


Ted Hardie said that the documents could be published as is with an IAB Note that explains that further changes are expected once the community discussion of the RFC Editor Model has completed.


Christian Huitema suggested asking someone from the IETF LLC to do a comprehensive review of these documents to see what additional changes would be needed beyond changing “IAOC” to “IETF LLC.”


Alissa Cooper replied that Sean Turner has already spent a fair amount of time reviewing these documents; she will ask him to review draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis, draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis, and draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis from an IETF LLC perspective.


### 10. Executive Session: Use of IAB-vote for general confidential topics


This item was deferred to a future IAB teleconference.


