
Minutes of the 2019-06-12 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present


* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Wes Hardaker
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-05-29 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-05-29)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for month ending 8 June 2019

# Research Groups

Appointed Jérôme François as new co-chair of NMRG.

COIN and NMRG held interim meetings.

HRPC continuing discussion re closing the HR-RT mailing list, and
managing future review work.

Worked with the proponents of the proposed SMART RG to review a charter
proposal. This is not currently in a state where it is appropriate to
approve SMART as a proposed RG. Discussion is ongoing.

# ANRP

IETF blog post re IETF 104 ANRP awards posted.

Announced awardees for IETF 105. Working with ISOC to arrange their
award travel and talks.

# ANRW

Budget and ACM TMRF were finalised. Worked with secretariat to develop
registration form. The registration and travel grant application should
go live in early June.

Papers were submitted and reviewed. A provisional programme of 13 peer
reviewed papers and two invited talks has been prepared. The accepted
papers will be announced shortly. The paper submissions were reported to
be of good quality.

# Documents and Errata

Sent draft-irtf-cfrg-re-keying-15 to RFC Editor

Started final IRSG poll on draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines. Final
IRSG review continuing on draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster and draft-irtf-
icnrg-terminology.

draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages-09 and draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics-10
are in AUTH48

# Other

Continue to update website and resolve broken links.

Attended IAB retreat in Reykjavik

Worked with IRSG to develop policy re Designated Experts for IRTF
documents in response to IESG query.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to June 12, 2019

This report covers ICANN activity seen by the board liaison until June
12, 2019.

There have been no physical meetings in this period.

This report is shorter than usual, for various unrelated reasons.

Hot topics
• Amazon - after the lack of agreement between the ACTO countries and
Amazon in the timeframe stipulated, the Board made a decision to
proceed with the process of delegating .amazon based on Amazon Inc’s
proposed public interest commitments.
• New gTLD rounds: Work to figure out how to start figuring out what
planning and consultation is needed is ongoing. There will be things
to discuss in Marrakech, but this will take time.
• GDPR, WHOIS, ePDP: “Everyone” seems to be indicating that they want
ICANN to resolve this “quickly” - a number of letters and public
statements have been seen.

The main activity for the next phase is the Marrakech meeting.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 12 June 2019

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for April 2019 monthly
statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing
goal times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other
experts. Monthly reports can be found at:
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics

Other News:

Working on updating the annual engagement survey for IANA Services.
This survey will be focused more on engagement with our stakeholder
groups. The post-ticket survey for request processing was introduced
late last year to more timely track feedback from our customers.

IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:

None to report

--End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton--
```

#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
* RSE contract
The RSE has announced that she will not be seeking to renew her contract 
at the end of 2019.

* RFC Format status
Transitioning to publishing RFCs in the v3 format is still on target for 
mid- to late-August, with the biggest risk continuing to be the timing 
of the release of Cluster 238. A high-level timeline, which will 
continue to be modified as we get closer to implementation, is available 
on the RSE wiki: 
https://www.rfc-editor.org/rse/wiki/doku.php?id=design:format-implementation

* Fifty Years of RFCs
A revised draft has been submitted after changes were made based on IAB 
feedback. The IAB will be voting on whether to accept this as an IAB 
stream document, and to start the approval process, in June.

* RPC resourcing
The IETF LLC has approved a short-term increase of 2 FTE for the RPC 
through the end of 2019. Discussions are underway as to whether that 
will be sufficient to handle the load during and immediately after 
implementing the new format work.

RPC

* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

Q2 2019 notes: The submission rate is average. PGTE is slightly higher 
because it includes documents that have been released from MISSREF to 
EDIT state. The publication rate is up compared with the previous four 
quarters.

The RPC continues to test the XMLv3 tools in preparation for the 
approaching transition. In addition, they are examining and updating 
their processes to account for XMLv3 tools and the new formats as they 
work to meet the transition timeline.

Also related to v3 format work, HTML files for the existing RFCs are 
available from the RFC Editor site. This means that each RFC published 
before the XMLv3 era will have an HTML file styled similarly to the 
current HTML files offered by tools.ietf.org. This allows consistent 
handling of links to RFCs, regardless of whether the RFC was produced 
before or after the transition to XMLv3.

```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. draft-thomson-use-it-or-lose-it


Martin Thomson noted that Stephen Farrell and Jeff Tantsura both provided comments that he will plan to address in the next version of the document. Martin also took an action to send a message to the architecture-discuss list asking for specific examples of greasing to include in the document.


Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote on whether to adopt draft-thomson-use-it-or-lose-it on the IAB stream.


### 4. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


Mark Nottingham reported that he put out a new version of draft-nottingham-for-the-users and has received some additional feedback that he would like to incorporate. The IAB agreed to defer the question of whether to adopt the document on the IAB stream until Mark brings back another version that he thinks is ready for adoption.


### 5. draft-flanagan-fiftyyears


Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote on whether to adopt draft-flanagan-fiftyyears on the IAB stream.


Ted Hardie noted that he would recuse himself from the vote because his immediate supervisor contributed part of the text for the document.


### 6. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


Jari Arkko sent a brief update from the DEDR Workshop to the IAB via email prior to the meeting.


The workshop discussed:


* The need to balance user non-involvement for setting up security with the equally important need for transparency and choice
* Whether to consider relevant threats such as communicating with malicious endpoints
* The need to increase the ability of browsers in defending the users’ privacy
* The need to avoid requiring centralized control or data storage points


The workshop also discussed specific issues around routing, denial-of-service attacks, IOT systems, the role of device manufacturers, the DNS, and regulatory reactions and their possible consequences.


Notes, a report, and a short summary article will be produced from the workshop.


### 7. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that the workshop received 15 submissions before the deadline. The program committee is discussing which papers to accept, and plans to send out invitations by 2019-06-14.


### 8. Trust in Internet entities statements


Melinda Shore reported that she is waiting on text from Wes Hardaker to include in the Trust Considerations for Protocol Designers document.


Mark Nottingham reported that he has updated the draft text for the IAB statement on Avoiding Unintended Harms of Encryption Policies based on the discussion at the IAB retreat. He asked the IAB to read the new version to see if they think it is on the right track.


### 9. Plenary Planning Program Update


Melinda Shore reported that the Plenary Planning Program has drafted some questions to include in the post-meeting survey for IETF 105.


The Program is following up with the speakers for IETF 105 about logistics.


### 10. Executive Session: Community Coordination Group (CCG) Appointments


The IAB discussed the appointments to the CCG in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN RZERC in an executive session.


### 12. Executive Session: RFC Series Editor Contract


The IAB received the following recommendation from RSOC on 2019-06-06:


“The RSOC has reached the decision to recommend that we reup the current RSE contract this year. We continue to be concerned with our last bid outcome, where there was a single applicant, and we wonder if changing or amending steps in the process (like where we bid, how long it’s out for bid, etc) would increase the number of respondents. We recognize that with 2020 coming closer, the ability to rebid in the short term would be too narrow. Our full recommendation is to reup at the end of this year, and then go out to bid in 2021 for the 2022 timeframe. The decision to rebid is explicitly not a comment on Heathers performance as RSE, but rather, our desire to collect more data and refine the process.”


Heather Flanagan announced that she did not intend to renew her contract as RSE on 2019-06-07.


The IAB discussed the RFC Series Editor contract in an executive session.


