
Minutes of the 2019-03-06 IAB Teleconference (Business Meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell (incoming IAB)
* Wes Hardaker (incoming IAB)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li (incoming IAB)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Robert Sparks
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-02-27 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-02-27)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. IAB Agenda at IETF 104


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 104.


Karen O’Donoghue confirmed that Carl Ford and Konstantinos Komaitis are available to talk about ISOC’s activities on consolidation and encryption on Monday morning.


Allison Mankin confirmed by email prior to the meeting that the T2TRG chairs are available to join the Thursday morning meeting.


### 3. BOF and Proposed Research Group Coverage at IETF 104


The IAB identified coverage for the BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 104.


### 4. IAB Retreat


The IAB discussed potential locations for the IAB retreat. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will collate the responses in the email thread on the topic and see if one preferred location emerges.


### 5. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


The IAB agreed to hold the DEDR workshop on 4-5 June 2019.


### 6. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


The IAB discussed a draft of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement aimed at legislators. Stephen Farrell suggested changing the title to make it more obvious that the statement was aimed at legislators. Wes Hardaker suggested that a high-level description of the purpose of the statement at the beginning of the text would be helpful.


Melinda Shore reported that she is still drafting the initial version of the statement that is aimed at protocol developers.


### 7. EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation


The IAB agreed to renew their application for membership in the EU Multistakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation. Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky will submit the application on behalf of the IAB.


### 8. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


Christian Huitema, Stephen Farrell, Martin Thomson, and Brian Trammell will send examples to Mark Nottingham to use in draft-nottingham-for-the-users.


Mark Nottingham will update draft-nottingham-for-the-users to include an editor’s note that says more examples are forthcoming. Mark will also draft text for a message to the IETF list asking whether there is interest in pursuing the document in the IETF stream, and circulate that to the IAB.


### 9. Conference Call times after IETF 104


The IAB discussed a proposal to change the time of the IAB conference call to 1300 UTC (mid-March through mid-October) and 2100 UTC (mid-October through mid-March).


Mark Nottingham suggested that the IAB might also want to consider changing how frequently the IAB meets (currently three times a month).


Ted Hardie noted that the IAB could also consider making their meetings shorter.


The IAB will discuss this further at IETF 104 and make a final decision then.


### 10. Moving RFC 3716 to Historic via draft-ietf-iasa2-consolidated-upd


The IAB approved adding an IAB note to draft-ietf-iasa2-consolidated-upd that says, “The IAB approved a proposal to move RFC 3716 to historic on 6 March 2019.” Alissa Cooper will ask the document editors to add that note.


### 11. Report to Internet Society Board of Trustees


Ted Hardie asked if there were any further comments on the IAB Chair’s report to the Internet Society Board of Trustees. The IAB was fine with the text, modulo the edits already proposed.


### 12. Incoming IAB Members on iab-vote


The IAB discussed whether to add incoming IAB members to the IAB vote list now, or to wait until the new IAB is seated at IETF 104. The IAB decided to wait until the new IAB is seated.


### 13. Appeal to make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent


The IAB approved the response to the appeal to make the procedure related to Independent Submission Stream more transparent. Ted Hardie will send out the appeal response, and Cindy Morgan will post it to the IAB website.


### 14. IESG Joint meeting topic review


The IAB discussed a potential topic for a joint meeting with the IESG in an executive session.


