
Minutes of the 2019-04-17 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


Regrets:


* Stephen Farrell
* Martin Thomson


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Melinda Shore asked to take part of the Plenary Planning Program discussion in executive session.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-03-28 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-03-28)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-04-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-04-10)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop


Mark Nottingham reported that he is still waiting to hear back from potential venues for the Exploring Synergy between Content Aggregation and the Publisher Ecosystem (ESCAPE) Workshop.


### 3. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


The [call for papers for the Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop](https://www.iab.org/activities/workshops/dedr-workshop/) went out to the IETF list on 2019-04-12. The IAB discussed where else the call for papers should be sent. Mirja Kühlewind will forward the details to the Measurement and Analysis for Protocols Research Group. Ted Hardie will forward the details to the I\* leaders’ list. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Greg Wood about promoting the workshop via social media.


Cindy Morgan will add location information to the workshop webpage, as well as language to thank Nokia for their support.


### 4. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


Melinda Shore reported that she sent an initial draft of the protocol designer version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement to Wes Hardaker, and that she hopes to have a version of this ready for IAB review within the next few weeks.


### 5. IAB Retreat Planning


The IAB reviewed potential topics for the IAB retreat agenda and began assigning people to lead the discussions. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will put together a draft of the retreat agenda for the IAB to review.


The IAB concluded that one of the potential topics, “IAB lore for newbies,” would be better handled as an informal discussion over lunch where new IAB members could ask questions. Cindy Morgan will put together a primer for new members about where to find information that is already documented in the IAB wikis.


### 6. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis-02


The IAB will review draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis; the document will be added to the IAB’s 2019-05-01 agenda to decide if it is ready for community review.


### 7. Plenary Planning Program


The IAB agreed to retain outgoing IAB members Allison Mankin, Gabriel Montenegro, and Suzanne Woolf as non-IAB members of the Plenary Planning Program.


Melinda Shore reported that at the 2019-04-16 Plenary Planning Program meeting, they discussed what the goal of having a technical talk at the plenary should be. They also talk about doing a series of talks on privacy-related topics. Alissa Cooper cautioned that having several technical plenaries in a row on the same topic will bore the people who are not interested in that topic.


The IAB meeting moved into executive session, and the IAB discussed potential future speakers.


