
Minutes of the 2019-03-13 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (IESG Liaison)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell (incoming IAB)
* Heather Flanagan (RFC Series Editor)
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li (incoming IAB)
* Allison Mankin (IRTF Chair)
* Gabriel Montenegro
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (incoming IRTF Chair)
* Robert Sparks
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Wes Hardaker (incoming IAB)
* Melinda Shore
* Suzanne Woolf


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-02-27 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-02-27)
* 2019-03-06 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-03-06)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


The internal action item list was reviewed.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report to the IAB 
13 Mar 2019

1.  Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium and co-
located workshops

The 26th Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium was 
held 24-27 February in San Diego. It featured 89 peer-reviewed academic 
papers along with four workshops (Usable Security and Privacy (USEC), 
Measurements Measurements, Attacks, and Defenses for the Web (MADWeb), 
Decentralised IoT Systems and Security (DISS), and Binary Analysis 
Research (BAR)). Attendance was at a record level. An NDSS Test of Time 
Award was awarded for the first time this year with one of the papers 
awarded having subsequent impact on the IETF (via the IKE work). The 
blog announcing the awards is: https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/
2019/02/ndss-2019-honors-timeless-papers/ . The full program is 
available at: 
https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-program/ndss-symposium-2019-program/.

2. Global Internet Report 2019: Consolidation in the Internet Economy - 
26th February, 2019

The next Internet Society Global Internet Report (GIR) was published on 
the 26th February, focusing on Consolidation in the Internet Economy. 
The report builds on work in 2018, including input from the community 
(surveys, interviews etc.), and offers a set of research questions that 
ISOC will be focusing on in 2019. The online version of the report is 
available here (a PDF version will be available later in March): 

> [Consolidation in the Internet Economy](https://future.internetsociety.org/2019/)

 

3. Call for Papers:  Journal of Cyber Policy's Special Issue on Internet 
Consolidation - Deadline 1 April

Following the Global Internet Report 2019, and the need to learn more 
about how consolidation may impact the Internet's continued evolution 
and use, the Internet Society and Chatham House is this year 
collaborating on a special issue of the Journal of Cyber Policy on the 
topic of consolidation. The goal is to encourage in-depth and 
interdisciplinary research related to the outcome questions of the GIR. 
The Call for Papers is available here (deadline for submitting an 
abstract is 1 April) : https://www.internetsociety.org/issues/future/
2019-consolidation-call-for-papers/

4. Research Funding for Data Collection on Consolidation

The issue of data proved to be one of the biggest hurdles as we were 
working on the Global Internet Report (GIR) 2019. We therefore want to 
encourage interested parties to help with the creation of relevant data 
sets to further research and the broader Internet community's 
understanding of how consolidation may impact the Internet. This data 
that will then be made openly available and hopefully encourage even 
further research. For more information about this opportunity and how to 
apply, please visit: https://www.internetsociety.org/issues/future/2019-
consolidation-research-funding/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–



```
IETF 104 Plans
---------------------
- Kudos to the Secretariat, especially Liz Flynn, on scheduling.  All 
  the RGs and Proposed RGs are meeting in person, along with a pre-RG 
  chartering BOF co-sponsored with IAB (SMART).  

ANRP
----------
- Three talks in IRTFOPEN in Prague, picking up the one that was 
  postponed from IETF 103 (full schedule attached again below)

ANRW
---------
- ANRW '19 Call for Papers has been approved by the co-chairs and 
  steering committee, and sent out.  It's posted at 
  https://irtf.org/anrw/2019/

Transition Planning
--------------------------
- Present Chair provided four transition sessions online with the 
  incoming Chair
- Prepared a runlist of the early IETF week transition tasks (e.g. 
  passwords) 
- Noted that the datatracker's adaptation to IRTF processes had work 
  still to be done, some of which is on the Tools team backlog, and some 
  that became evident in discussing the transition.
  - Ballot support for IRSG Poll (but Colin suggested maybe operate IRSG 
    as an IRTF Directorate instead)
  - RG Creation - tracker allows either Proposed or Active for RGs, but 
    for not being marked Active leaves them invisible in the tracker and 
    hampers work.  
  - Incoming Chair pointed a bis under way for the IRTF process doc, RFC 
    2014/BCP 8:
    draft-eggert-irtf-rfc2014bis.  Had not gotten on the present Chair's 
    radar at all (!)

ISOC and IRTF Post-LLC
-----------------------------------------
- The IAD, the IRTF Chair, and the ISOC CITO agreed on several post-LLC
  matters.  IAD and Incoming IRTF Chair have the consensus email on 
  this, and it is reflected in the published LLC budget.  ANRP budget 
  and logistics remain at ISOC; IRTF Chair commits to chair and run the 
  ANRP selection process. ANRW budget and operations are under LLC; ISOC 
  commits to a sponsorship donation, similar to ACM SIGCOMM's and to 
  program management support from Mat Ford or another staff member going 
  forward.
- Fundraising for ANRW and ANRP - there are still questions to work out, 
  but the LLC's fundraiser has primary responsibility for ANRW (with 
  IRTF Chair) and ANRP donations should come through ISOC fund-raising.
- The ISOC CEO answered an email question about ISOC staff and IRTF RG 
  Chairs by saying that he didn't want to include IRTF specifically in 
  the new staff rules that sent to IETF-Discuss on March 11, but that he 
  would expect it applies to ISOC staff serving as RG Chairs. 
   
Research Groups
-----------------------
- The COIN Proposed RG is having a first meeting in Prague - the co-
  chairs are Marie-José Montpettit, Eve Schooler, and Jianfei He
- The SMART group is having a meeting co-sponsored by IAB and IRTF - 
  this is a follow-up to the CARIS2 workshop as well as a discussion of
  what should be in the charter of a Proposed RG.  The proponents are 
  Kathleen Moriarty and Kirsty Paine
- After a review request to the CFRG on March 8 from the RFC Independent 
  Series Editor, debate has begun on the CFRG mailing list about whether 
  CFRG should remain an RG or move to IETF.  There are voices on both 
  sides.

Document Transitions
-------------------------------
AUTH48 Hash-Based Signatures
                  draft-mcgrew-hash-sigs

RFC EDIT  AES-GCM-SIV: Nonce Misuse-Resistant Authenticated Encryption 
                  draft-irtf-cfrg-gcmsiv

RFC EDIT Network Virtualization Research Challenges
                  draft-irtf-nfvrg-gaps-network-virtualization

RFC EDIT State-of-the-Art and Challenges for the Internet of Things Security
                  draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-seccons

RFC EDIT  CCNx Semantics 
                   draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics-

RFC EDIT CCNx Messages in TLV Format
                  draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages

TO IESG    Re-keying Mechanisms for Symmetric Keys
                   draft-irtf-cfrg-re-keying  


Reprise of ANRP 2019 Schedule (Updated with Postponed 2018 Award)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

104: Arash Khakhi Molavi, Northeastern University, Taking a Long Look at 
QUIC, IMC '17

104: Florian Streibelt, Max Planck Inst (Saarbrücken), BGP Communities: 
Even more Worms in the Routing Can, IMC '18

104: Brandon Schlinker, U. Southern California, Engineering Egress with 
Edge Fabric: Steering Oceans of Content to the World, SIGCOMM '17

105: Neta Rozen Schiff, Hebrew U. Jerusalem, Preventing (Network) Time 
Travel with Chronos, NDSS '18

105: Taejoong Chung, Rochester Inst Tech (RIT), Understanding the Role 
of Registrars in DNSSEC Deployment, IMC '17

106: Weiteng Chen, UC Riverside, Off-path TCP exploit: how wireless 
routers can jeopardize your secrets, USENIX Security '18

106: Shehar Bano, UCL, Scanning the Internet for Liveness, CCR 4/18
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Allison Mankin–


#### 2.3. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to March 9, 2019

This report covers ICANN activity seen by the board liaison until March 
9, 2019.

The main activity in this period was preparation for the Kobe meeting. 
The next report will cover the Kobe meeting itself.

Hot topics

- Cybersecurity: ICANN issued a couple of warnings about attacks on the 
  infrastructure (see moniker “DNSpionage”). 
  https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2019-02-15-en
- ePDP on WHOIS: The working group finished its Phase 1 work, which is a 
  timely result in order to replace the temporary specification that 
  allows registries to operate in a GDPR-compliant manner. This now goes 
  for public comment and further discussion, as well as starting Phase 2 
  of the work. The Phase 1 document does not specify an unified access 
  model - individual registries and registrars are still legally 
  responsible for responding to queries for non-public registration 
  data.
- Future root server system governance: A concept paper has been 
  produced by ICANN based on RSSAC 37/38, and will be the basis for a 
  public consultation in order to come up with a final proposal that is 
  implementable and agreed upon by the ICANN community.
- The CCT review report has been processed by the board, with a lot of 
  recommendations accepted, several passed on to the community for 
  consideration as policy changes, and some (especially “collect data” 
  recommendations) held back for a study of feasibility and usefulness
- .Amazon is still a work in progress, we do not have clarity.

The Kobe meeting starts Monday, March 11.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.4. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 13 March 2019
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 99% of processing goal times for January 2019 monthly 
  statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
  goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
  and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
  experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
  https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
- Revising the 2019 SLA with changes to include the IETF LLC language.  
  Plan to have all necessary reviews completed and ready for approval by 
  IETF-104.
 
Other News:
 
- Waiting for response from IDNA expert regarding posting of revised 
  tables.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to report
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–



```
RSE

* RFC Format testing

Continuing the rapid pace of change in the RFC Format effort, testing to 
determine the suitability of Callas Software to create PDF/A-3 files is 
complete, and license keys have been generously donated by Callas to the 
RFC Editor. The Datatracker is expected to be opened to accepting v3-
formatted Internet Drafts within the next few weeks, and a tutorial that 
describes some of the v3 changes in relation to creating new Internet 
Drafts is planned for IETF 104.

See https://trac.tools.ietf.org/tools/ietfdb/wiki/FormatToolsPlan for a 
record of what has been released. 

* Historical Discrepancies

As part of his research into the first 365 RFCs, Darius Kazemi, has 
discovered a few discrepancies in the RFC Editor repository of old RFCs. 
Specifically, a missing page for RFC 2 and 270 and conflicting records 
regarding two documents referred as RFC 32. 

The RPC has posted new copies, based on PDF images acquired from the 
Computer History Museum, of RFCs 2 and 270 to their respective RFC Info 
pages. For the more complicated issue of RFC 32, the RSE will be writing 
a short document, to be published as an RFC, explaining the issue for 
the record and describing both documents. Errata for those RFCs that 
point to the different RFC 32 will include a pointer to the explanation 
of what (probably) happened. 

* Fifty Years of RFCs

Work on the draft marking the anniversary of the fiftieth year of 
publishing RFCs is still underway. The RSE is working with Vint Cerf, 
Steve Crocker, and members of the RFC Series Advisory Group to develop a 
timeline of interesting events and milestones over the course of the 
last fifty years, and considering additional text to capture Jon 
Postel's impact on the series.

RPC

* https://www.rfc-editor.org/report-summary/

The RPC is not expecting to meet the SLA this quarter. For most 
documents, it's expected that the RFC Editor-controlled time will meet 
Tier 2 goal (12 weeks or fewer) rather than the Tier 1 goal (6 weeks or 
fewer). 
 
Format update: The RPC installed temporary Callas software/license onto 
RPC server and tested creation of PDF/A-3 files. Files were then passed 
to the RSE to review whether they meet the PDF/A-3 requirements.

The editors had v3 tutorial sessions with tool developers on xml2rfc 
(v3), xmldiff, rfclint, and svgcheck.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, Heather Flanagan–


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 104


The IAB reviewed their agenda for IETF 104.


Cindy Morgan noted that the IAB still needs a volunteer to cover the proposed Quantum Internet RG. Allison Mankin noted that the Computing in the Network RG is proposed as well, but had not been marked as such in the Datatracker.


Ted Hardie asked those who would consider standing as the IAB’s liaison to the IESG to speak up before Sunday at IETF 104, as the IESG retreat is planned for just a few weeks after the meeting and whoever goes will need time to plan their travel.


### 4. IAB Retreat


Cindy Morgan reported that the Secretariat is working on contracting with a hotel in Reykjavik for the retreat. She asked IAB members who have not already done so to respond to the Doodle poll about hotel nights.


Potential topics for the IAB retreat are being collected on the wiki: <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/2019\_Retreat>


### 5. Design Expectations vs. Deployment Reality in Protocol Development (DEDR) Workshop


The IAB discussed potential venues for the DEDR Workshop planned for 4-5 June 2019. Ted Hardie asked the IAB members who are interested to look for potential venues and come back with proposals by IETF 104.


### 6. “Trust in Internet Entities” Statements


Mark Nottingham reported that people have been commenting and suggesting text for the version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” statement that is aimed at legislators. The discussion is ongoing.


### 7. draft-nottingham-for-the-users


Mark Nottingham reported that he was not able to post a new revision of draft-nottingham-for-the-users before the I-D submission deadline for IETF 104 and asked if there was a way to get posting approved during the blackout period. Alissa Cooper replied that an Area Director can approve posting during the blackout period. Mark will send the updated draft to Alissa and Cindy Morgan for posting.


### 8. Other Business


Ted Hardie asked the IAB to consider whether the IAB teleconferences could be shortened to one hour.


