
Minutes of the 2019-12-04 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Stephen Farrell
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observers:


* None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Martin Thomson noted that he expects to have something to report back from the IETF NomCom in the next couple of weeks.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-10-30 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-10-30)
* 2019-11-17 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-11-18)
* 2019-11-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-11-18)
* 2019-11-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-11-21)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2019-12-04: Ted Hardie to inform the RSOC and Executive Director that the IAB endorses the RSOC’s recommendation for a Temporary RFC Series Project Manager.
* 2019-12-04: Ted Hardie to draft a message to the community regarding the formation of the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2019-12-04: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the candidates for the ICANN RSS GWG positions.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-22: IAB to get back to Scott Mansfield about shepherding ITU-T coordination on Network 2030 and the Future of IP.
* 2019-11-18: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Christian Huitema, and Brian Trammell to draft description for a Program on Internet resiliency.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about the potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).
* 2019-11-17: All IAB to send comments on the draft IAB COI policy.
* 2019-11-17: Brian Trammell to create a sub in the intarchboard Github repo to discuss the encrypted DNS topic.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to update IAB mailing list page on the website with a cross-check against the private wiki page.
* 2019-02-06: Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore to take the pen on protocol designer version of “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


### 2. Potential IAB Program on Internet Resilience


The IAB discussed a potential IAB Program on Internet Resilience.


Ted Hardie expressed a concern that there is some overlap between this Program and the ongoing threat model discussions; there is a question about where resilience stops and the question of how to update the Internet threat model starts. As both of these discussions are scoped, it will be helpful to know which direction the work will flow.


The IAB will continue to discuss the proposed text for the Program description via email and in GitHub.


### 3. Potential IAB Statement on Encrypted DNS


The IAB discussed whether or not there was anything useful they could say about the discussions coming out of the Application Behavior Considering DNS (ABCD) BOF at IETF 106.


Jari Arkko suggested that this is a topic where it might be easier if several people write something and bring it back to the IAB, rather than trying to write something as a committee.


Ted Hardie suggested that those who are interested in the topic can also discuss it more on the model-t mailing list.


### 4. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed the draft IAB conflict of interest policy.


Jari Arkko asked if the current text, based on the IETF LLC CoI policy, is the right approach for the IAB. The currently-undocumented process that the IAB has been using has been for IAB members to note whether there are any conflicts prior to a vote, and recuse as necessary.


The new proposed policy is declaration-based, rather than topic-based. Jari Arkko noted that such a policy might be difficult for the IAB to apply, since most of the CoI issues that the IAB faces come up in the context of making appointments, rather than awarding contracts.


The IAB agreed to re-review the current proposal and open issues and continue the discussion via email.


### 5. Next Steps on Model-T


The IAB agreed to defer the bulk of the discussion about the next steps on Model-T until Stephen Farrell would be able to participate in the discussion. For now, the next step is for people to write down their thoughts on the threat model, and from there the IAB will discuss at what point to move the discussion into another specific process, whether it be transitioning it to an IETF Working Group or formalizing it as an IAB Program.


### 6. RSOC recommendation for Temporary RFC Series Project Manager


The IAB agreed to endorse RSOC’s recommendation for the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager. Ted Hardie will inform the RSOC and the IETF Executive Director.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to hold a meeting on 2019-12-11.


### 8. Executive Session: Request to Form RFC Editor Future Development Program


The IAB discussed the request to form an open Program on “RFC Editor Future Development” in an executive session. The IAB agreed to create the Program.


Ted Hardie will draft a message to the community regarding the formation of the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


### 9. Executive Session: RSOC Membership Terms


This agenda item was deferred to 2019-12-11.


### 10. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments


Ted Hardie and Wes Hardaker recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


