
Minutes of the 2019-12-18 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


NONE


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-12-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-04)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-12-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-11)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2019-12-18: Stephen Farrell to edit and send text on the proposed internet resiliency program [name TBD] to the arch-discuss list for comment.
* 2019-12-18: Stephen Farrell and Jari Arkko to work on draft text for the proposed Model T Program and circulate it with the IAB.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-12-11: Ted Hardie and Martin Thomson to draft text describing the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2019-12-11: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Heather Flanagan regarding the RFC Editor liaison report for December 2019.
* 2019-11-22: IAB to get back to Scott Mansfield about coordinating work between the IETF and the ITU-T effort for Network 2030 and the Future of IP.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


### 2. IAB Program on Internet Resilience


The IESG discussed the proposed IAB Program on Internet Resilience, and the next steps for the draft text.


Stephen Farrell will make some additional edits to the text before circulating the text on the arch-discuss email list.


Action Item: Stephen Farrell to edit and send text on the proposed internet resiliency program [name TBD] to the arch-discuss list for comment.


### 3. Model-T Next Steps


The IAB discussed the next steps for the proposed Model T activity. There was a short discussion whether it would be an open IAB Program (that is, membership in the Program is open to everyone who wants to join, but meetings may be only open to those who are members of the program) or be an IAB Program with open meetings (that is, an IAB Program that allows anyone who wants to attend meetings attend, but membership in the program would be closed).


Stephen Farrell and Jari Arkko volunteered to draft text for the proposed Program and circulate the text on the IAB list.


Action Item: Stephen and Jari to work on draft text for the proposed Model T Program and circulate it with the IAB.


### 4. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed the current draft of the IAB conflict of interest policy.


The IAB decided to do one more round of text edits to incorporate changes requested by Martin Thomson and Alissa Cooper. The IAB decided with the pending edits, the text could be sent for comment to both the IESG and the IETF Community.


### 5. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed and approved the revised timeline for the ICANN TLG Appointment process in an executive session.


### 6. Executive Session: Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) Appointment


Wes Hardaker and Ted Hardie recused themselves and left the teleconference for this executive session. The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


