
Minutes of the 2019-10-02 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Erik Nordmark
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BoF Coordination Call for IETF 106 will be held on 2019-10-09 during the time slot normally reserved for the IAB meeting.


The regular IAB meeting time will shift to 2130 UTC starting at the 2019-10-16 meeting.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-09-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-09-18)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-08-28: Ted Hardie to request a session at the Singapore IETF (106) for Heather Flanagan to chair to discuss the process for the future of the RFC Series.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-07-21: Alissa Cooper to notify Ted Hardie & Stephen Farrell when the final LLC COI policy is published; Ted/Stephen to adjust the text for the IAB and send it out for an e-vote.
* 2019-05-17: Christian Huitema to figure out how to measure the effectiveness and impact of the work of the IETF.


##### Updated:


* 2019-02-06: Wes Hardaker & Melinda Shore to take the pen on the protocol designer version of the “Trust in Internet Entities” Statement.


##### New:


* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf- iasa2-rfc6548bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Ted Hardie to follow up with the authors of draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis re resolving the comments received during the community review period.
* 2019-10-02: Cindy Morgan to send the RFC Series Project Manager Statement of Work to the LLC via Portia Wenze-Danley
* 2019-10-02: Jeff Tantsura to invite Dino Farinacci to join the Thursday IAB meeting at IETF 106.


### 2. Document Status Update


#### 2.1. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6220bis – Defining the Role and Function of IETF Protocol Parameter Registry Operators


Ted Hardie will follow up with the authors regarding comments received during the community review period.


#### 2.2. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc4844-bis – The RFC Series and RFC Editor


Ted Hardie will follow up with the authors regarding comments received during the community review period.


#### 2.3. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6548bis – Independent Submission Editor Model


Ted Hardie will follow up with the authors regarding comments received during the community review period.


#### 2.4. draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc6635bis – RFC Editor Model (Version 2)


Ted Hardie will follow up with the authors regarding comments received during the community review period.


Stephen Farrell asked if the community has been informed that the IAB plans to issue the IASA2 updates for this document while the community is having a broader discussion about the evolution of the RFC Editor Model. Ted Hardie replied that there are threads on the IETF mailing list about this that he can point to about that.


### 3. RSE and RFC Editor Model Next Steps


Cindy Morgan noted that two of the three virtual interim meetings to discuss the process for evolving the RSE Model have been held. Ted Hardie has requested a BOF-like session at IETF 106 to discuss this further.


The IAB discussed the updated Statement of Work (SOW) for the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager from the RSOC. The IAB approved transmitting the SOW to the LLC Board. Cindy Morgan will send the SOW to the LLC Board via Portia Wenze-Danley.


### 4. Update on ITU coordination


Jeff Tantsura reported that he has spoken with Richard Li about presenting an update to the IAB at IETF 106 in Singapore. Ted Hardie added that Richard indicated that he is hoping the IRTF would accept work from the ITU-T, and it would be helpful if Colin Perkins could make some time to discuss that possibility. Colin agreed that it would be good to discuss that; he has some concerns about how the work would be scoped. Colin, Jeff Tantsura, and Zhenbin Li will try to set up a conference call with Richard before IETF 106 to discuss the proposed work.


Alissa Cooper suggested adding additional participants to diversify the discussion. Jeff Tantsura agreed to ask Dino Farinacci if he would be able to participate in the discussion at IETF 106, as he had previously been involved in this space.


### 5. Possible DOH Workshop


The IAB discussed the possibility of holding a workshop on DOH. Wes Hardaker noted that one of the issues with recent deployment trends on the Internet in general is centralization, and DOH is just one example of that, and wondered if the IETF could do more to encourage decentralization in general. Jari Arkko agreed, noting that an application (e.g. Facebook) being centralized and an infrastructure (e.g. DNS or routing) being centralized are different problems. He added that the IAB made a statement on encryption in 2014.


Ted Hardie agreed, but noted that centralization is not built in to the architecture; it is based on choices made elsewhere, and there is some disagreement about who makes the choices that lead to centralization.


Alissa Cooper noted that at the time of the 2014 IAB statement on encryption, all the incentives were aligned and the statement confirmed the path forward; however, in this case the incentives are not aligned, and she is not sure that an IAB statement would make a difference.


Christian Huitema said that choke points in the architecture encourage centralization, and he is not convinced that moving to an encrypted centralized server holds any privacy benefits.


Wes Hardaker encouraged the IAB to think more about framing this around positive incentives for increased decentralization rather than on the negative effects of centralization.


Stephen Farrell asked how small a TRR can be and still offer benefits. He added that the IAB may be able to offer alternatives if not incentives.


There was a short discussion surrounding TRRs and the ADD BoF from IETF 105 before Ted Hardie requested that the conversation continue via email.


Alissa Cooper added that the IESG would be discussing the next steps in regards to the ADD BoF from IETF 105 at the IESG teleconference on 2019-10-03, and she encouraged interested members of the IAB to join the call for the discussion.


### 6. IAB Agenda at IETF 106


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 106. Cindy Morgan asked that any food and beverage requests for Program meetings be sent to her by 2019-10-18.


Ted Hardie noted that the IAB discussion with the ITU-T was scheduled for Thursday morning, and asked if there was any objection to moving the review of the IRTF research group to Monday morning. Colin Perkins agreed to the move, and suggested COINRG as the group that be reviewed.


