
Minutes of the 2020-10-07 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Jeff Tantsura
* Mark Nottingham


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the BOF Coordination Call for IETF 109 is on Friday, 2020-10-09 at 1400 UTC.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-09-23 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-09-23)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-08-12: Jari Arkko (with Wes Hardaker) to start a [re-write of draft-arkko-arch-infrastructure-centralisation](https://github.com/intarchboard/arch-consolidation-and-centralisation) and post it on Github.
* 2020-09-09: All IAB to forward the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop Call for Papers to interested parties.
* 2020-09-09: Wes Hardaker and Jari Arkko to propose a [response to the public comment on the GNSO New gTLD Subsequent Procedures Draft Final Report](https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-reports-documents/2020-2/iab-comments-on-new-gtld-subsequent-procedures/).
* 2020-09-23: Cindy Morgan to to send a reminder of the call for papers for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.
* 2020-09-23: Wes Hardaker to reach out to Harald Alvestrand about SAC113.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-9-23 meeting.)
* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “[Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).” (Note: Check back in on this at the end of October.)


##### New:


* 2020-10-07: Mirja Kühlewind and Jari Arkko to draft text for refactoring administrative IAB programs.
* 2020-10-07: Mirja Kühlewind to update the text on refactoring technical IAB programs based on the IAB’s discussion and merge it with the existing text on the IAB website.
* 2020-10-07: Jari Arkko and Cindy Morgan to extend the call for papers for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.
* 2020-10-07: Cindy Morgan to draft text for a call for feedback on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-10-07: Cindy Morgan to draft text for a call for feedback on the IRTF Chair appointment.


### 2. IAB Programs


The IAB reviewed a proposal from Mirja Kühlewind, Colin Perkins, and Stephen Farrell on refactoring technical IAB programs. In particular, this proposal would establish open programs as the norm for technical programs, with a dedicated set of “core participants” who are expected to not only provide feedback, but actually drive part of the work. Having an explicit list of volunteers helps to support progress and might also help some people to get their commitment recognized in order to secure time and budget for it.


Wes Hardaker noted that tracking a list of core participants might become administratively difficult over time. Jared Mauch agreed, saying that he did not think that explicitly adding the participant metadata would be more helpful than just knowing who is participating. Stephen Farrell said they did not need to be prescriptive about what is meant by “core participants.” Mirja Kühlewind added that the goal is to get a commitment from the people working on the program, not to exclude anyone.


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether the proposal should be sent out to the architecture-discuss list for community review. Colin Perkins replied that there needed to be clarification about technical programs versus administrative programs before this goes out for wider review.


Mirja Kühlewind and Jari Arkko will draft text about refactoring administrative IAB programs.


Mirja Kühlewind will update the text on refactoring technical IAB programs based on the IAB’s discussion and merge it with the current text on the IAB website.


### 3. COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop


Jari Arkko reported that a few papers have been submitted for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop, noting that the call for papers closes on 2020-10-09. Cullen Jennings asked if the deadline should be extended; Jari replied that it likely should be, but that he would prefer to wait until the current deadline to announce an extension. Jari will work with Cindy Morgan to make the announcement and update the web page accordingly.


### 4. Private Use TLD Name Space Considerations


This item was deferred to the IAB business meeting on 2020-10-14.


### 5. Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Contract


This item was deferred to the IAB business meeting on 2020-10-14.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will draft text for a call for feedback on the appointment and send it to the IAB for review.


### 7. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed the IRTF Chair appointment in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will draft text for a call for feedback on the appointment and send it to the IAB for review.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-10-14 at 1330 UTC.


