
Minutes of the 2020-03-11 IAB Teleconference 
IETF 107 Virtual Meeting
----------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell (incoming IAB)
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Cullen Jennings (incoming IAB)
* Mirja Kühlewind (incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch (incoming IAB)
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly (incoming IAB)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reported that as this meeting is being considered part of IETF 107, incoming members are now full IAB members. Alvaro Retana will be the new liaison from the IESG.


### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-03-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-03-04)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-03-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-03-11)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-for-the-users.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendars with future teleconferences.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to send out a Doodle poll for the joint IAB/IESG meeting on March 30 or March 31.
* 2020-03-11: Ted Hardie to notify the chosen RFC Future Development Program Chair.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to notify the RFC Future Development Program Chair candidates who were not chosen.
* 2020-03-11: Brian Trammell to draft advice for the incoming IAB Chair.
* 2020-03-11: Brian Trammell to follow up with the IAB Chair candidates once the advice for the incoming IAB Chair is complete.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-03-11: Colin Perkins to find a time for a virtual review of the QIRG.


### 2. 2020-2021 IAB Chair Selection


Jari Arkko recused himself from the discussion. The IAB selected Mirja Kühlewind as the IAB Chair for 2020-2021.


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 107


The IAB finalized their plan to cover the virtual BOFs at IETF 107:


* MASQUE: Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC Encryption (INT)
	+ Stephen Farrell, Ted Hardie, Christian Huitema, Cullen Jennings, and Martin Thomson are planning to cover the BOF.
* RIPT: Realtime Internet Peering for Telephony (ART)
	+ Martin Thomson is a co-chair and Cullen Jennings is presenting.
	+ Ben Campbell, Ted Hardie, and Jared Mauch are planning to cover  
	
	the BOF.
* PRIVACYPASS: privacy-pass (SEC)
	+ Ben Campbell, Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Cullen Jennings, Mark Nottingham, and Martin Thomson are planning to cover the BOF.
	+ Stephen Farrell volunteered to act as IAB shepherd for the BOF.
* TXAUTH: Transactional Authorization and Delegation (SEC)
	+ Jared Mauch, Colin Perkins, and Jeff Tantsura are planning to cover the BOF.


### 4. IAB Program Leadership


The IAB discussed the leadership of various IAB Programs.


* IANA Program
	+ Jari Arkko will be the IAB Lead for the Program.
	+ Stephen Farrell will step down from the Program.
	+ Mirja Kühlewind will be added to the Program.
* Internet Threat Model (Model-T) Program
	+ Jari Arkko and Stephen Farrell remain the IAB Co-Leads for the Program.
* Liaison Oversight Program
	+ Mark Nottingham and Zhenbin Li will remain the IAB Co-Leads for the Program.
* Plenary Planning Program
	+ Wes Hardaker will be IAB Lead for the Program.
* RFC Editor Future Development Program
	+ Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch will be the IAB Co-Leads for the Program.
		- Note: This Program has a Chair selected from the community. In this case, the Program Co-Leads act as a liaison between the Program Chair and the IAB.
* RFC Editor Program (RSOC)
	+ Cullen Jennings will be the IAB Lead for the Program.
		- Note: This Program has a Chair selected from the community. In this case, the Program Lead acts as a liaison between the Program Chair and the IAB.


### 5. RSOC-IAB Membership


With Christian Huitema stepping down from the IAB at the end of IETF 107, his tenure on RSOC will also end. Cullen Jennings will join Mark Nottingham as the IAB members on RSOC.


### 6. IAB Stream Manager


Mirja Kühlewind will serve as the stream manager for the IAB Stream.


### 7. Liaison Shepherds


The IAB reviewed the IAB shepherds for the various IETF liaison relationships, and made the following changes:


* Jared Mauch will be the IAB Shepherd for Broadband Forum.
* Jared Mauch will be the IAB Shepherd for CableLabs.
* Stephen Farrell will be the IAB Shepherd for the Community Coordination Group (CCG).
* Mark Nottingham will be the IAB Shepherd for ECMA TC39.
* Wes Hardaker and Jari Arkko will be the IAB Shepherds for the ICANN- related liaisons (ICANN Board of Directors, ICANN NomCom, ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG), ICANN RSSAC, ICANN RZERC, ICANN TLG)/
* Tommy Pauly will be the IAB Shepherd for IEEE 802.1 and IEEE-SA.
* Cullen Jennings will be the IAB Shepherd for the ISO-related liaisons (ISO/IEC JTC1 SC2, ISO/IEC JTC1 SC29, ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6, ISO/TC46, ISO/TC204)
* Alissa Cooper will be the IAB Shepherd for Unicode.
* Martin Thomson will take over as Liaison Manager for W3C. Mark Nottingham will be the IAB Shepherd for W3C.


### 8. IAB Liaisons


Mark Nottingham volunteered to be the IAB Liaison to the 2020-2021 NomCom.


Wes Hardaker will remain the IAB Liaison to the IESG.


### 9. ARPA Change Control Approver


Discussion of the ARPA Change Control Approver was deferred to email due to time constraints.


### 10. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-04-01 at 1330 UTC.


