
Minutes of the 2020-02-05 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison, incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Christian Huitema


##### Observers:


* Ben Campbell (incoming IAB)
* Tommy Pauly (incoming IAB)
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to make sure that their time zone is represented accurately on the spreadsheet to determine the best time to hold IAB meetings after IETF 107.


Ted Hardie suggested re-ordering the items in the Executive Session to take the discussion about the ISOC Board of Trustees appointment first.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-01-15 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-01-15)
* 2020-01-22 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-01-22)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2020-02-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-for-the-users out for community review.
* 2020-02-05: Wes Hardaker to update the draft conflict of interest policy and send it to the IAB for review by 2020-02-12.
* 2020-02-05: Wes Hardaker to send the IAB’s candidate for the ISOC Board of Trustees to Alissa Cooper, who will forward it to the IESG for confirmation.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie, Stephen Farrell, and Alissa Cooper to interview the ICANN Technical Liaison Group candidates.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### Done/OBE:


* 2020-01-22: Mark Nottingham to draft text for a cover letter to forward along with the IAB’s comments on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill to the independent monitor reviewing the legislation.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to forward the IAB’s comments on the Assistance and Access Bill to the independent monitor reviewing the legislation.
* 2020-01-22: Mark Nottingham to post the updated version of draft- iab-for-the-users to the Datatracker.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to send out an e-vote on whether to send draft-iab-for-the-users out for community review.
* 2020-01-22: Stephen Farrell and Wes Hardaker to review the community discussion on the draft IAB conflict of interest policy and synthesize it for the IAB.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to send e-vote on 2020-01-27 to confirm the IESG slate presented by NomCom.
* 2020-01-08: Jari Arkko to send the draft Program description text for an IAB Program on Model-T to the model-t@iab.org list.
* 2020-01-08: Alissa Cooper, Wes Hardaker, Brian Trammell, and Jari Arkko to interview the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates.


### 2. draft-iab-for-the-users


The IAB agreed that draft-iab-for-the-users is ready for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 3. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB briefly discussed the draft conflict of interest policy. Wes Hardaker volunteered to edit the current version based on the feedback received during the community review process, and send it to the IAB for review by 2020-02-12. The conflict of interest policy will be on the IAB’s 2020-02-19 agenda for approval.


Ted Hardie suggested that the IAB that will be seated in March 2020 review the conflict of interest policy at the IAB’s 2020 retreat.


### 4. Model-T


Jari Arkko sent the draft description for a potential IAB Program on the Internet threat model out to the model-t@iab.org and architecture-discuss@ietf.org lists on 2020-01-24. A public conference call to discuss the threat model has been scheduled for 2020-02-14.


Stephen Farrell asked the IAB to think about how they would like to select chairs for this Program.


### 5. IESG Slate from NomCom


Via e-vote, the IAB confirmed the IESG slate presented by the IETF NomCom. Alissa Cooper, as IETF Chair, recused herself from the discussions.


### 6. IAB Chair Selection Process


The IAB that will be seated in March 2020 agreed to include the outgoing IAB in the discussions about selecting the next IAB Chair.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to plan to hold a meeting on 2020-02-12 in order to discuss 2020 retreat options and the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.


### 8. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Jari Arkko disclosed that there are business negotiations about a consulting task going on between his employer and one of the candidates, although not in his unit or with a significance that would warrant recusal.


The IAB voted on the IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session. Wes Hardaker will pass the candidate information along to the IESG via Alissa Cooper for confirmation.


### 9. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group in an executive session.


### 10. Executive Session: RFC Editor Future Development Program


The IAB discussed potential chairs for the RFC Editor Future Development Program in an executive session.


