
Minutes of the 2020-12-02 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* (None)


##### Observers


* Jay Daley
* Warren Kumari
* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-11-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-11-04)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-11-04: Alissa Cooper to add an item on the response to the liaison statement on “Clarifying domain namespace responsibilities” to the joint IAB/IESG agenda.
* 2020-11-04: Mark Nottingham and Wes Hardaker to review the changes to the Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups proposal in GitHub.
* 2020-11-04: Mirja Kühlewind to send the proposal on Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups out to the community for review (once Mark and Wes’s reviews are complete).
* 2020-11-04: Cindy Morgan to send a call for nominations for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointments on 2020-11-10.
* 2020-11-04: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-dedr-report out for community review.
* 2020-11-04: Jari Arkko to confirm that the latest version of the papers submitted to the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop are posted.
* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings and Mark Nottingham to ask the RSOC Chair for a monthly report out of RSOC.


##### OBE:


* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings to ask the RSOC Chair to forward the message about the RFC XML and Style Guide change management team to the IETF list and point people to the discussion on rfc-interest.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “[Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).”
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.


##### New:


* 2020-12-02: Mirja Kühlewind to subscribe to the ISOC Governance Reform Working Group mailing list.
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB website with the new text about refactored Programs and Administrative Support Groups.
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the incumbent regarding the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the incumbent regarding the IRTF Chair appointment.


### 2. Internet Society Governance Reform Working Group


The Internet Society Board of Trustees recently announced the formation of the Governance Reform Working Group, which is tasked with reviewing the governance structure of the Internet Society Board of Trustees. The group welcomes all members of any ISOC chapter, Organization Member, SIG, as well as individual members and IETF participants to contribute to this effort.


Stephen Farrell suggested that some members from the IAB should follow this effort, noting that he had subscribed to the mailing list. Mirja Kühlewind said that she would subscribe to the mailing list as well.


### 3. IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups


Mirja Kühlewind reported that the feedback on the architecture-discuss list about the IAB’s proposal to refactor Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups was generally positive, and there were no specific comments on the text. The IAB agreed that they had no concerns about proceeding with the reorganization. Cindy Morgan will work with Mirja to update the text on the “[Programs](https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/)” page of the IAB website.


### 4. draft-iab-dedr-report


The community review period for draft-iab-dedr-report ended on 2020-12-02; no feedback was received.


The IAB will review draft-iab-dedr-report one last time and put it on the IAB agenda for 2020-12-16 to approve it for publication as an RFC.


### 5. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to use the reserved meeting slot on 2020-12-09 to meet with the DNSOP chairs and ADs about how to work on the liaison regarding special-use TLD name spaces.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group


In an executive session, the IAB voted unanimously to reappoint Warren Kumari to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group for 2021-2023. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Warren and send an announcement.


### 7. Executive Session: IRTF Chair Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB voted unanimously to reappoint Colin Perkins as the IRTF Chair for 2021-2023. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Colin and send an announcement.


