
Minutes of the 2020-01-08 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-12-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-11)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2019-12-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-19)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2020-01-08: Ted Hardie to send the draft IAB conflict of interest policy out for IESG and community review.
* 2020-01-08: Stephen Farrell to work with Cindy Morgan to set up a chirp@iab.org mailing list for discussions on challenges for Internet Resilience.
* 2020-01-08: Jari Arkko to send the draft Program description text for an IAB Program on Model-T to the model-t@iab.org list.
* 2020-01-08: Ted Hardie to draft a call for nominations to chair the RFC Editor Future Development Program and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2020-01-08: Alissa Cooper, Wes Hardaker, Brian Trammell, and Jari Arkko to interview the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).
* 2019-12-11: Jari Arkko, Stephen Farrell, and Christian Huitema to make a recommendation about how to proceed with the Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments.


##### Done:


* 2020-01-08: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates.
* 2019-12-18: Stephen Farrell to edit and send text on the proposed internet resiliency program [name TBD] to the arch-discuss list for comment.
* 2019-12-18: Stephen Farrell and Jari Arkko to work on draft text for the proposed Model T Program and circulate it with the IAB.
* 2019-12-11: Ted Hardie and Martin Thomson to draft text describing the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2019-11-22: IAB to get back to Scott Mansfield about understanding the work streams for the IETF and the ITU-T efforts for Network 2030 and the Future of IP.
* 2019-11-18: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Christian Huitema, and Brian Trammell to draft description for a Program on Internet resiliency.
* 2019-11-17: All IAB to send comments on the draft IAB COI policy.


### 2. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed the draft IAB conflict of interest policy and agreed that it was ready for wider review. Ted Hardie will send the draft IAB conflict of interest policy out to the IESG and the community for comments.


### 3. Internet Resilience Program


Stephen Farrell suggested that the IAB follow up on the resilience thread on the architecture-discuss mailing list by setting up a new open mailing list to discuss the challenges for Internet resilience and continuing to refine the description of a possible IAB Program on this topic.


Wes Hardaker noted that there are several potential venues to discuss this topic:


* A regular IAB Program
	+ This may be too closed
* An open-model IAB Program
	+ This may not be visible enough
* The IETF Security Area
* The IETF General Area
* A different SDO
* A design team
	+ This may be too closed
* A non-WG mailing list
	+ This may not be visible enough
* A workshop
	+ This has time and capacity constraints
* A virtual workshop


The IAB agreed that the immediate next step would be to create a mailing list for the topic, and continue discussions informally for now. Stephen Farrell suggested adding a topic to the 2020 IAB retreat to discuss how to handle membership for technical IAB Programs.


### 4. Model-T Program


The IAB agreed to send the draft Program description text for the Model-T Program to the model-t@iab.org list for review.


### 5. RFC Editor Future Development Program


Ted Hardie will draft a call for nominations to chair the RFC Editor Future Development Program and send it out to the IAB for review. The call for nominations will be sent out to the community, and once the nominations period closes, the IAB will seek feedback on the volunteers.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to hold a teleconference on 2020-01-15 to discuss the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments. The entire meeting will be in executive session.


### 7. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session.


Martin Thomson disclosed a conflict of interest; one of the candidates is a colleague.


Alissa Cooper, Wes Hardaker, Brian Trammell, and Jari Arkko will interview the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates. Cindy Morgan will schedule the interviews.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group (TLG) Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group (TLG) in an executive session.


### 9. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) Appointments


Ted Hardie recused himself from the discussion and left the teleconference.


Wes Hardaker, who had previously recused from this discussion, withdrew himself from consideration as one of the candidates and remained on the call.


The IAB discussed the appointments to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


