
Minutes of the 2020-05-27 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


(None)


##### Observers:


(None)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


The IAB agreed that the topic on the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair would need an executive session, and the agenda was re-ordered accordingly.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-05-13 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-05-13)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-05-20 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-05-20)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to check the subscription settings for the i18n-discuss list.
* 2020-05-20: Wes Hardaker to draft questions for the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair interviews.
* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to follow up regarding the announcement of the ICANN Board Liaison appointment.
* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline for the ICANN NomCom appointment.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind to assign leaders for each of the retreat breakout topics.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to set up Slack for the IAB.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind to ask Karen O’Donoghue to flag any discussions about the ISOC Board of Trustees governance structure for the IAB.
* 2020-05-20: All IAB to sign up for retreat breakout topics.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-05-13: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Jared Mauch, and Tommy Pauly to interview the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair candidates.
* 2020-05-20: Cullen Jennings to draft a proposal for codifying the length and rotation of RSOC membership terms.


##### New:


* 2020-05-27: All leads for retreat breakout sessions to send their scheduling requests to Cindy Morgan by 1400 UTC on 2020-05-28.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to schedule breakout sessions for IAB retreat.
* 2020-05-27: Zhenbin Li to follow up with Deborah Brungard/Routing ADs about whether there is need for a formal liaison relationship with ETSI.
* 2020-05-27: Wes Hardaker to review the timeline and call for nominations text for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee appointment by 2020-05-29.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to send a call for nominations for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee appointment.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN NomCom appointment.


### 2. IAB Virtual Retreat Planning


The IAB discussed planning for their virtual retreat during the week of 2020-06-01. The breakout group leaders should send their scheduling requests to Cindy Morgan by 1400 UTC on 2020-05-28. Cindy Morgan will schedule the sessions in Webex and add them to the IAB calendar.


Tommy Pauly asked how the retreat materials would be archived. After a brief discussion, Mirja Kühlewind suggested that each breakout group use whatever is easiest for them (e.g. Etherpad, wiki, Google doc) during the retreat itself, and then archive those materials linked from the retreat wiki page once the retreat is over.


### 3. ETSI Liaison Work


Zhenbin Li suggested that the IETF might want to consider trying to establish a formal liaison with ETSI, noting a concern that there might be overlap between work in the IETF TEAS WG and the ETSI Industry Specification Group on Zero touch network and Service Management (ZSM).


Mirja Kühlewind noted that even without a formal liaison relationship, ETSI and IETF can still send liaison statements back and forth.


Alissa Cooper added that as far as she is aware, the current informal setup has been working well, and asked if something had changed.


Zhenbin Li agreed to follow up with Deborah Brungard and the Routing Area Directors about whether there is need for a formal liaison relationship with ETSI, and report back to the IAB.


### 4. ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC)


Cindy Morgan noted that Jim Reid’s current term on the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) will end at ICANN 69. Jim has served in this role for the past 4 years and cannot seek another term because of the term limits laid out in RFC 8128.


Wes Hardaker will review the timeline and draft text for the call for nominations for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) appointment, after which time Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations.


–Begin ICANN RZERC Report, Jim Reid–



```
RZERC's received two proposals.

One from Verisign is to consider the introduction of ZONEMD RR(s) into
the root - once the current I-D has become an RFC of course. The
rationale for this is to have extra protection for copies of the root
zone that might not get distributed using TSIG-validated axfrs: think
hyperlocal roots.

The other is from RSSAC and is to consider the signing of root-
servers.net, the zone that has the authoritative DNS data about the root
servers themselves.

No decisions were taken on next steps about either proposal. Both are
felt to be in scope for RZERC. Though its role is likely to be
identifying which parties need to be involved in the discussion and what
their roles and responsibilities should/could be. It doesn’t seem likely
that RZERC itself will do the heavy lifting (like analysis of the
operational impact) or undertake much outreach on either proposal. [It]
may well just act as a conduit or focus point for others to supply
information. The consensus on the [conference] call that just ended was
“yes, this stuff’s in scope for us - let’s consider what the next steps
might be”.
```

–End ICANN RZERC Report, Jim Reid–


### 5. ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB agreed on the timeline for the appointment of the IETF delegate to the ICANN NomCom. Cindy Morgan will send out a call for feedback on the incumbent.


### 6. Executive Session: RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment of an additional chair or chairs for the RFC Editor Future Development Program in an executive session.


