
Minutes of the 2020-10-14 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Board Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Mark Nottingham


##### Observers


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to fill out the poll to select a time for the post-IETF 109 meeting with the IESG.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review.


* 2020-10-07 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-10-07)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-10-07: Jari Arkko and Cindy Morgan to extend the call for papers for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.
* 2020-10-07: Cindy Morgan to draft text for a call for feedback on the IRTF Chair appointment.
* 2020-10-07: Mirja Kühlewind to update the text on refactoring technical IAB programs based on the IAB’s discussion and merge it with the existing text on the IAB website.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-9-23 meeting.)
* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “[Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).” (Note: Check back in on this at the end of October.)
* 2020-10-07: Mirja Kühlewind and Jari Arkko to draft text for refactoring administrative IAB programs.
* 2020-10-07: Cindy Morgan to draft text for a call for feedback on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.


##### New:


* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the IRTF Chair appointment.
* 2020-10-14: Wes Hardaker to follow up with the DNSOP WG chairs with advice on when and how to liaise with ICANN regarding private use TLD name space considerations.
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.
* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to subscribe Jay Daley to the IAB mailing list.
* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB Open meeting chairs.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 12 October 2020.

# Research Groups

* Seeking co-chair for DINRG
* Continued discussion with the 6G-and-IP proponents to develop
 a proposal on routing privacy for identifier-locator routing. 
* As yet, no follow-up to the FIPE side meeting at IETF 108

# ANRP

* Seeking nominations for ANRP 2021 until 22 November. 

# ANRW

* Discussing format and potential co-chairs for 2021 workshop.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-panrg-what-not-to-do in IRSG review
draft-irtf-panrg-questions in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan in IRSG review
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch in IRSG final poll; revision needed
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g in IRSG final poll; revision needed
draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IESG conflcit review
draft-irtf-cfrg-randomness-improvements with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster with RFC Editor

Started processing RFC errata backlog.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to October 14, 2020

This report covers ICANN events from September 9 to October 14.
It only calls out a few items of special note.

Meetings - ICANN 69 (AGM)

The ICANN 69 meetings have started. They are now scheduled as a series 
of zoom calls (mostly using webinar layout, to reduce zoombombing), 
spread out over 3 weeks rather than 1 week - but we do get weekends off.

The Board is meeting with all its components as usual. Much focus is on 
the "MultiStakeHolder Model evolution" (usually referred to as MSM); the 
final report of the consultation process is available, and people are 
wondering how it should be turned into concrete actions.

New TLDs

Nothing much to report here; people are now assuming that there will be 
a next round.

EPDP phase 2 aka the SSAD

The EPDP phase 2 process concluded that one should create a common 
access function (the SSAD) so that those that want to query non-public 
WHOIS data have a single place to go.

There’s massive confusion about who’s for or against it - the business 
reps have come out and said "nobody will use it", while those who would 
have to fund its building have said "it will be far too expensive" - yet 
the GNSO council approved the report’s recommendations, saying that "the 
process has been followed", with several members indicating that they 
felt compelled to accept the report even though they thought it was the 
wrong thing to do.

Discussion reigns.

SSAC report 113

The SSAC has emitted its report recommending that ICANN allocate a TLD 
string specifically for "private use". The Board has looked at the 
report, but has taken no formal action yet; the feeling in the board is 
that reservations like this should really be based on an IETF request, 
since the IETF is the body that can ask for TLDs to be reserved for 
*other* purposes than general assignment. This will continue to be 
talked about.

Board membership

NomCom has returned Avri Doria and Sarah Deutsch for another 3 years on 
the board. With Patricio Poblete (new) and Leon Sanchez and Matthew 
Shears (renewed), we now have all the seats on the board confirmed for 
the change of the board that occurs at the end of ICANN 69.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 14 October 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the September 2020 monthly 
  statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing 
  goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over 
  and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other 
  experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
  https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
Getting ready for the upcoming 2020 Customer Survey.  Messages will go 
out to the IETF community soon describing the survey soon.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
    
None
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–



```
The RSOC and RPC have agreed to try to return to the old SLA, 
understanding the the amount of work involved per page has increased by 
roughly 50% from what it was before the XML transition.  The interim RSE 
is working with the RPC to update the SLA reporting tools he wrote for 
them some years ago.

Our informal group, Henrik Levkowetz, Peter St Andre, Robert Sparks, is 
getting formal endorsement from the RSOC to review and manage updates to 
the XML grammar.  The grammar itself has stabilized as of the 3.0 
release of [xml2rfc].
```

–End Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report–


Wes Hardaker observed that he is unclear which liaisons should be giving reports at IAB meetings, and what the reporting structure is for other liaisons. He asked to add this topic to a future agenda for further discussion.


### 3. Private Use TLD Name Space Considerations


Wes Hardaker reported that the DNSOP WG has adopted draft-ietf-dnsop-private-use-tld. Since the draft has now been adopted, Wes will follow up with the DNSOP WG chairs with advice that the WG can liaise with ICANN about this whenever the chairs and AD feel it is suitable to do so by reaching out to the liaisons directly and CCing the appropriate IAB liaison managers.


Stephen Farrell noted that this advice on when reach out to liaisons should not be applied generically, as there may be cases when there is not a specific WG involved (e.g. with 3GPP code points).


Wes Hardaker asked that a topic on how to codify a process about when liaisons should be invoked be added to a future IAB agenda for further discussion.


### 4. SSAC 113


Harald Alvestrand reported that the ICANN Board will be sending the IAB a liaison statement about SSAC 113 (SSAC Advisory on Private-Use TLDs). It is not clear at this point whether the advice in SSAC 113 conflicts with what will end up in draft-ietf-dnsop-private-use-tld.


### 5. IAB Schedule for IETF 109


The IAB agreed that they did not need to schedule any additional meetings around IETF 109, but noted that they may make more use of the reserve meeting slots in the future.


### 6. Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Contract


The RFC Editor Future Development Program chairs asked the IAB what their plan was if the Program’s work has not concluded before the current Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract ends. The Program chairs were under the impression that the contract ends at the end of 2020; however, the contract actually ends 2021-06-30. Given that, the Program chairs retracted their request.


Cullen Jennings noted that the IAB needs to have an action item to track this so that it can be resolved before the contract ends. The IAB agreed to revisit this in January 2021.


Mirja Kühlewind observed that it would be useful to have the IETF Executive Director looped in on such discussions, and suggested adding him to the IAB mailing list. There were no objections to that, so Cindy Morgan will add him to the list.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-10-21 at 2130 UTC.


### 8. Other Business


Mirja Kühlewind asked for a volunteer to co-chair the IABOPEN meeting at IETF 109. Wes Hardaker agreed to act as co-chair.


