
Minutes of the 2020-02-12 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison, incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Jay Daley
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that the BOF Coordination call for IETF 107 is on 2020-02-13 at 1600 UTC.


Ted Hardie reported that the IAB Chair’s report to the ISOC Board of Trustees will happen on 2020-03-13, and that the ISOC Board Liaison has extended an invitation for any candidates for IAB Chair to join that meeting. Ted will forward the details to the IAB list.


Nominations for IAB Chair are due to Brian Trammell by 2020-02-14.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-02-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-05)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-02-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-for-the-users out for community review.
* 2020-02-05: Wes Hardaker to send the IAB’s candidate for the ISOC Board of Trustees to Alissa Cooper, who will forward it to the IESG for confirmation.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie, Stephen Farrell, and Alissa Cooper to interview the ICANN Technical Liaison Group candidates.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-02-05: Wes Hardaker to update the draft conflict of interest policy and send it to the IAB for review by 2020-02-12.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### New:


* 2020-02-12: Alissa Cooper to email the IAB and IESG to confirm the dates and location of the joint IAB/IESG retreat.
* 2020-02-12: Alissa Cooper to follow up regarding letters of invitation of those who will need visas to attend the joint IAB/IESG retreat.
* 2020-02-12: Cindy Morgan to extend the call for nominations for chairs of the RFC Editor Future Development Program until 2020-02-24 at 2000 UTC.
* 2020-02-12: Ted Hardie to send out an e-vote on the ICANN TLG appointment.


### 2. 2020 IAB Retreat Options


Alissa Cooper sent an email to the IAB noting that, based on the results of the Doodle poll, the best option for maximizing attendance at a joint IAB/IESG retreat would be to hold the retreats 2020-06-02 through 2020-06-05 in Boston, MA, USA as follows:


* 2020-06-02: Full-day IESG retreat
* 2020-06-03: First half-day IESG retreat, second half-day joint IAB/IESG retreat
* 2020-06-04: First half-day joint IAB/IESG retreat, second half-day IAB retreat
* 2020-06-05: Full-day IAB retreat


No objections were raised to this plan. Alissa Cooper will send email to the IAB and IESG confirming the date and location before starting work on the logistics.


Zhenbin Li noted that he does not currently have a visa to enter the USA. Alissa Cooper will follow up regarding letters of invitation for those who will need a visa.


Jiankang Yao noted that while he has a visa to enter the USA, Chinese passport holders may have trouble entering the USA because of concerns over COVID-19 (coronavirus).


Ted Hardie said that he hopes the COVID-19 issue will be resolved before the retreat in June, and that the IAB should handle the visa question first.


### 3. Executive Session: RFC Editor Future Development Program


The IAB discussed the appointment of chairs for the RFC Editor Future Development Program in an executive session. The IAB agreed to extend the deadline for nominations until 2000 UTC on 2020-02-24 in order to widen the candidate pool.


### 4. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group in an executive session. Ted Hardie will send out an e-vote.


