
Minutes of the 2020-03-11 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison, incoming IAB)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observers:


* Ben Campbell (incoming IAB)
* Jay Daley
* Cullen Jennings (incoming IAB)
* Jared Mauch (incoming IAB)
* Tommy Pauly (incoming IAB)
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that the item on the RFC Future Development Program Chair no longer needed to be in executive session because all of the ballots had been returned.


### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-03-04 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-03-04)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-03-04: Mark Nottingham to let Ted Hardie & Cindy Morgan know when draft-iab-for-the-users is ready for an e-vote to approve the document.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie/Cindy Morgan to start an e-vote to approve draft-iab-for-the-users.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to send an e-vote after 2020-03-06 on the RFC Future Development Program Chairs.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to add an item on the process around adopting workshop reports on the IAB stream to the IAB’s IETF 107 agenda.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to send out a Doodle poll to find availability for an additional meeting to discuss/vote on the next IAB Chair.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to post the IAB conflict of interest policy on the IAB website.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to announce the IAB conflict of interest policy to the community.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to draft a response to Fernando Gont regarding the request for an architectural statement on IPv6 packet integrity and circulate it to the IAB for review.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to follow up with Fernando Gont regarding the request for an architectural statement on IPv6 packet integrity.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.


##### OBE:


* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie/Cindy Morgan to set up a blind voting system to use for the IAB Chair vote.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### New:


* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-for-the-users.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendars with future teleconferences.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to send out a Doodle poll for the joint IAB/IESG meeting on March 30 or March 31.
* 2020-03-11: Colin Perkins to find a time for a virtual review of the QIRG.
* 2020-03-11: Ted Hardie to notify the chosen RFC Future Development Program Chair.
* 2020-03-11: Cindy Morgan to notify the RFC Future Development Program Chair candidates who were not chosen.
* 2020-03-11: Brian Trammell to draft advice for the incoming IAB Chair.
* 2020-03-11: Brian Trammell to follow up with the IAB Chair candidates once the advice for the incoming IAB Chair is complete.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 11 March 2020

# Research Groups

* NMRG is rechartering
* Wojciech Kozlowski replaced Stephanie Wehner as co-chair of QIRG 
* Börje Ohlman will step down as co-chair of ICNRG 

# ANRP

* ANRP presentations for IETF 107 have been postponed until later 
  meetings

# ANRW

Call for papers and travel grant applications issued. 
Budget and sponsorship in progress. 

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster ready to go to RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review (revised draft needed)
draft-irtf-cfrg-randomness-improvements-10 awaiting IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g-05 awaiting IRSG review

12 RFC errata awaiting review, relating to six RFCs produced by CFRG. 

# Other

* Ongoing discussions re NewIP work in ITU and its relation to IRTF
* Ongoing discussions re IETF 107 cancellation and RG scheduling
* Diversity travel grant committee selected; webpage in progress
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report up to 2020-02-19, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to February 19, 2020

This report covers ICANN events from December 11, 2019 until February 
19, 2020.

ICANN 67 and the Covid-19 crisis

The ICANN Board has been having quite a lot of discussion about what the 
impact should be on ICANN-67 in Cancun of the global health crisis from 
the Covid-19 epidemic.

The decision of the Board, in its meeting on February 19, was to cancel 
the meeting and switch to a “pure virtual” format.

ICANN and the .org sale

This was easily the most time-consuming item since the proposed sale was 
announced.

All board members have been advised by counsel to refrain from making 
public comments on the case, so I’ll just point out a few important 
recent public items:

  - Letter from ICANN to ISOC asking for more time to evaluate the 
    proposal (Jan 30)

  - Letter from ISOC to ICANN giving a new deadline for a yes/no answer 
    (Feb 3)

  - Letter from ICANN to ISOC in response to the new deadline (Feb 13)

GDPR and EPDP phase 2

The EPDP WG seems to have difficulty reaching a consensus (not a 
surprise), but seems to have agreed to propose a so-called “hybrid” 
model for access to non-public WHOIS data, where ICANN or its designate 
would operate a facility for validating requests for such access, 
including the requester’s identity, but would leave registries and 
registrars responsible for the actual disclosure decision.

Contact between ICANN and the European data protection authorities has 
continued, leading to some hope of clarification on how to interpret the 
law in a manner that can actually be executed on.

RSSAC / Root Operators redesign

Proceeding on schedule. The GWG membership has been established (with 
several recognizable names), and is due to have its first teleconference 
on February 25.

There’s also hectic activity in the SubPro work (new TLDs). More about 
that later.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report up to 2020-02-19, Harald Alvestrand–


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report up to 2020-03-11, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to March 11, 2020
This report covers ICANN events from Feb 19 to March 11, 2020 (roughly).

Remote ICANN 67 and the Covid-19 crisis

Reactions after the cancellation of the face-to-face ICANN meeting in 
Cancun were rather calm and quite supportive; at the start, there were a 
few who accused ICANN of “panicking”, but the mood has been swinging 
quite quickly towards “it was a Good Thing to cancel”.

Two days into the meeting, there has been a lot of praise for the 
organizers; of course, people miss the interactions and the hallway 
conversations, but the feeling is that “we get some work done”. The Zoom 
facilities used (Zoom conference for up to 300 people, Zoom webinar for 
meetings that might grow larger) seem to have worked well; of course 
there is any number of “can you hear me now”, “we lost XXX” and “please 
remember to unmute”, but such is the nature of teleconferencing. The 
largest number observed by me in a meeting was more than 600 (session to 
raise issues on the .org matter).

All physical ICANN sponsored meetings in March are cancelled or 
postponed; the board will evaluate the situation after the virtual 
Cancun is over. Given the news from the rest of the world, it would seem 
strange if ICANN were not to cancel April events; we’ll see about May. 
Current guidance: https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2-2020-02-28-en

ICANN and the .org sale

This continues to be a Hot Topic.

It’s now clear that both the California Attorney General and the 
Pennsylvania Attorney General have opened investigations into the sale. 
The Pennsylvania AG is the one that has to say either “yes” or “no” to 
the conversion of PIR from a non-profit to a for-profit; the California 
AG is the body with oversight of ICANN’s non-profit status.

PIR / Ethos is currently doing a public comment period for their 
proposed Public Interest Commitments (PIR), and is suggesting making 
those enforceable by ICANN by embedding them into an amended ICANN 
contract. Whether ICANN is willing or able to take on the enforcer role 
is unclear, as is whether the community thinks that those PICs are 
trustworthy and sufficient.

ICANN ran a “community dialogue” public forum on the sale on Monday 
March 9; this allowed a number of issues to be raised, but was not a 
place where answers could be given - for things raised where answers are 
in published papers, a written response will be prepared; other matters 
were either opinion pieces or questions for which no answer can be given 
at this time.

The current deadline for ICANN to say yes or no to the transfer of 
control is March 20; it seems unlikely that all matters will be resolved 
before that date.

GDPR and EPDP phase 2

Ongoing. The “hybrid model” (request intake centralized, final decision 
to be taken at registries/registrars) is still the most popular model, 
but the way towards consensus is not obvious - according to rumour, some 
people who think either that there should be no centralized service 
whatsoever or that WHOIS as such should be abandoned are pointing to the 
slowness of progress as an argument for going back to their original 
viewpoints.

Quite a bit of advice and information has been received from the 
European Commission; this is good (and highly unusual). Both US Congress 
and the EU Parliament have been asked to consider motions referencing 
access to non-public WHOIS data.

RSSAC/Root Operators

No new information to report here. RSSAC has a number of meetings on the 
agenda of Virtual ICANN 67, but I have not attended them (yet).

DNS Abuse

Major topic of concern, and the subject of scare tactics - a 
presentation in the Commercial Stakeholders Group tried to attach the 
number “20 billion USD” to DNS abuse via a couple of accounting tricks 
(using “assets exposed” rather than “assets compromised” and linking the 
whole phishing category to DNS abuse).

ICANN’s inability to force bad actors to behave via contract compliance 
work is seen by some as unwillingness to do so. ICANN, meanwhile, is 
working on various efforts (including the abuse monitoring system DAAR) 
to figure out how abuse behaves and what relevant efforts can be done.

DNS over HTTP

Still a subject of angst, now seemingly refined into “can we trust 
applications to choose their DNS servers”. A SSAC report on the subject 
is in the process of being published; it should be visible at 
https://www.icann.org/groups/ssac/documents within days.

No-news areas

No news worth mentioning on .web, .amazon or auction funds.

A public comment period on the .com contract revision has ended; 
comments are being analyzed.

SSR2 review report is in public comment period; close of comments is on 
March 20.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report up to 2020-03-11, Harald Alvestrand–


Ted Hardie asked what the expected timeline for the PIR decision would be, if the 2020-03-20 deadline would not be met. Harald Alvestrand replied that he does not know, but that ICANN has asked for the deadline to be extended.


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 11 March 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the February 2020 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
 
Twleve .arpa related requests to make contact information updates are 
currently in process. 
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to Report.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


Michelle Cotton noted that the IANA Program is planning to reschedule the face-to-face meeting they had originally planned for IETF 107 as a conference call sometime following the virtual IETF 107 meeting. Ted Hardie asked that she coordinate the with the Program mailing list.


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


Ted Hardie asked for an update on the the public discussion about the v3 format problems. John Levine replied that not much progress has been made. He is working with Julian Reschke to get the documentation up-to-date, but it will be a significant project. Ted asked John if he needed any help from the IAB on this, and John replied that he did not.


### 3. draft-iab-for-the-users


Via an e-vote, the IAB approved publishing draft-iab-for-the-users as an Informational document on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 4. Conference Call Timing


The IAB agreed to change their conference call time to 1330 UTC starting on 2020-03-25. The conference call time will change back to 2130 UTC starting on 2020-10-21. Cindy Morgan will update the IAB calendars accordingly.


### 5. IAB Agenda at IETF 107


With IETF 107 changing to a virtual meeting only, the IAB agreed to hold a conference call on 2020-03-18 at 2130 UTC to discuss the items that had been on the IAB’s Sunday agenda for IETF 107.


The IAB agreed to revisit all of the internal appointments at the IAB retreat.


Colin Perkins took an action to reschedule the QIRG review for a future IAB teleconference.


The discussions about refactoring IAB Programs and IAB workshop reports were deferred to future IAB teleconferences and/or the IAB retreat.


The IAB agreed with the IESG’s proposal to hold the joint IAB/IESG meeting to walk through the hot topics in each Area via a two-hour teleconference on 2020-03-18 starting at 2230 UTC.


Cindy Morgan will send out a Doodle poll to schedule the joint IAB/IESG post-IETF 107 debrief for either 2020-03-30 or 2020-03-31.


### 6. RFC Future Development Program Chairs


Via an e-vote, the IAB selected Eliot Lear to chair the RFC Future Development Program. Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will follow up with all of the candidates.


### 7. Executive Session: IAB Chair Selection


IAB Chair candidates Wes Hardaker, Stephen Farrell, and Mirja Kühlewind left the teleconference. Jari Arkko recused himself from the discussion.


The IAB discussed the 2020-2021 IAB Chair in an executive session. Brian Trammell will draft advice for the incoming IAB Chair.


