
Minutes of the 2020-05-20 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observer:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review.


* 2020-05-13 business meeting • (draft submitted 2020-05-13)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-05-13: Cindy Morgan to post the SAA policy on the website.
* 2020-05-13: Cindy Morgan to post the updated list description for architecture-discuss.
* 2020-05-13: Cindy Morgan to ask IT to close the caris-attendees, emserv-discuss, inip-discuss, internetgovtech, iotsi, iotsu, marnew, privsec-discuss@iab.org, and stackevo-discuss lists.
* 2020-05-13: Cindy Morgan to update the virtual retreat times in  

the IAB calendar.
* 2020-05-13: All to review the Evolving the Internet document.
* 2020-05-13: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Jared Mauch regarding the i18n-discuss list.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-05-13: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Jared Mauch, and Tommy Pauly to interview the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair candidates.


##### New:


* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to check the subscription settings for the i18n-discuss list.
* 2020-05-20: Wes Hardaker to draft questions for the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair interviews.
* 2020-05-20: Cullen Jennings to draft a proposal for codifying the length and rotation of RSOC membership terms.
* 2020-05-20: All IAB to sign up for retreat breakout topics.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind to assign leaders for each of the retreat breakout topics.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to set up Slack for the IAB.
* 2020-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind to ask Karen O’Donoghue to flag any discussions about the ISOC Board of Trustees governance structure for the IAB.
* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to follow up regarding the announcement of the ICANN Board Liaison appointment.
* 2020-05-20: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline for the ICANN NomCom appointment.


### 2. IAB Virtual Retreat Planning


Mirja Kühlewind suggested a number of topics that came out of the IAB’s SWOT/PEST analysis that might be appropriate for retreat discussions:


* COVID-19: Impact on technical work
	+ tracking/privacy, videoconferencing
* COVID-19: Impact on the IETF working model
	+ financial, engagement, online-only effectiveness
* Impact/disruptions by other parties
	+ on effectiveness and relevance: PIR, nationalism, SDOs
* Technical factors related to deployment of increased security
	+ centralization, new protocols (DoH, SR)
* IAB processes/procedures: Find better way to get work done
	+ people, time commitment, effectiveness, motivation
* Mission of the IAB: strategic/long term issues of the Internet
	+ strength, regain trust, vision & external coordination
* Evaluate/review the success of the IETF
	+ workshop, working model, internal coordination
* Architectural guidance
	+ Raising the level of technical and architectural dialogue (via programs/plenaries)


Mirja Kühlewind asked IAB members to sign up in the wiki to work on some of these breakout topics. Based on the wiki signups, Mirja and Cindy Morgan will assign leaders for each topic that has a critical mass of interested IAB. Topic leaders will work with the people in their groups to set up separate calls to discuss their topics. The results of these breakout sessions will be reported back to the full IAB at the retreat meetings on Wednesday and Friday.


Additional topics, like reviewing the IAB Program structure and the membership terms for RSOC, will be discussed by the IAB as a whole during the retreat. Cullen Jennings took an action to draft a proposal for codifying the length and rotation of RSOC membership terms.


### 3. ICANN’s Decision on Proposed PIR Transaction


The IAB briefly discussed ICANN’s decision on the proposed PIR transaction and concluded that while there is no immediate action for the IAB here, the IAB should continue to monitor any discussions about ICANN’s governance. Mirja Kühlewind will also ask Karen O’Donoghue to flag any discussions about the ISOC Board of Trustees governance structure for the IAB.


### 4. Evolving the Internet document


The authors of the “Evolving the Internet” document agreed that the document would be better published under the individual author names than as an IAB statement.


### 5. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB agreed to reappoint Harald Alvestrand as the IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors for 2020-2022.


### 6. ICANN NomCom Appointment


Cindy Morgan reported that the ICANN NomCom has requested that the IAB provide a delegate to the ICANN NomCom on behalf of the IETF by Friday, 2020-07-17. Cindy Morgan will put together a timeline for the appointment process. Wes Hardaker and Jari Arkko will ask the incumbent if he is willing to continue.


