
Minutes of the 2020-04-01 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on the RFC Editor Future Development Chairs was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-03-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-03-11)
* 2020-03-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-03-19)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-03-11: Colin Perkins to find a time for a virtual review of the QIRG.


##### New:


* 2020-04-01: All to send conflict of interest disclosures to the IAB list.
* 2020-04-01: Cindy Morgan to post conflict of interest disclosures on the COI page.
* 2020-04-01: All to try to widen the pool of chair candidates for the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2020-04-01: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the current ICANN Board Liaison and find out if he is willing to continue in the role past October.


### 2. Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed how to manage the collection and posting of conflict of interest disclosures from the IAB.


The IAB will send their conflict of interest disclosures to the IAB list. Cindy Morgan will collect those disclosures and post them for review before adding them to the IAB’s conflict of interest policy page on the website.


### 3. Use of Confidential Mailing List


The IAB discussed when it is appropriate to use the iab-vote list rather than iab@iab.org. The IAB agreed that iab@iab.org should be used for most topics, with iab-vote being reserved for confidential topics such as discussion of personnel matters.


### 4. IAB Call Time


The IAB agreed to keep their conference call time at 1330 UTC until mid-October.


### 5. RFC Editor Future Development Program Chairs


Mirja Kühlewind asked the IAB to review her proposed response to Brian Carpenter about adding a second chair to the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that she is concerned that if the IAB re-runs their previous process (i.e., a call for nominations and request for feedback on candidates), they will end up with the same result and no new candidates.


Jari Arkko said that the external situation may have changed because of COVID-19; it is unlikely that the Program will be able to have any face-to-face meetings for the foreseeable future, so having a remote chair is a more viable option than it might have otherwise been.


The IAB agreed that finding a second chair sooner rather than later should be the goal; however, finding the right person for the role is also important.


The IAB agreed to reach out to try and widen the pool of applicants for the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair before starting a new selection process.


### 6. IAB Retreat Planning


This agenda item was deferred to a future IAB teleconference.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-04-08 at 1330 UTC.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Action item: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the current ICANN Board Liaison and find out if he is willing to continue in the role past October.


