
Minutes of the 2020-07-15 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Cullen Jennings


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to add topics for the upcoming joint meetings with the IESG to the wiki.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-06-17 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-06-17)
* 2020-07-01 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-07-01)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar with IAB meetings around IETF 108, and re-send the link to the calendar to the IAB list.
* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the RZERC appointment.
* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to follow up regarding the ICANN NomCom appointment.
* 2020-07-01: Tommy Pauly to update the draft description for the Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program and send it out to the architecture-discuss list for comments.
* 2020-07-01: All IAB to sign up for IETF 108 BOF Coverage.
* 2020-07-01: Jari Arkko to draft a call for papers for an IAB workshop on COVID-19’s impact on the Internet. (TPC to include Jari, Stephen Farrell, Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins.)
* 2020-06-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Tommy Pauly to draft an agenda for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 108.
* 2020-06-10: Wes Hardaker to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on centralization.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-06-03: Stephen Farrell and Colin Perkins to schedule a tech chat on contact tracing apps and permissionless innovation.
* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing.
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings and Jared Mauch to find out whether people would be willing to provide content for a possible plenary topic on the heroic efforts to keep Internet services up during COVID-19; if so, they will take the proposal to the Plenary Planning Program.
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on prioritization.
* 2020-06-17: IAB to discuss on the mailing list whether the lessons learned from Let’s Encrypt can be applied to other arenas (e.g. identity management).
* 2020-07-01: Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch to interview the RZERC candidates (Cindy Morgan to schedule interviews).


##### New:


* 2020-07-15: Jari Arkko to follow up with Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky regarding the EU Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation.
* 2020-07-15: Wes Hardaker to update the text for the proposed Centralization Analysis Program (CAP).
* 2020-07-15: Tommy Pauly to work with Cindy Morgan to set up a mailing list for the proposed EDM Program.
* 2020-07-15: Jari Arkko to update the call for papers for the proposed COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 15 July 2020

# Research Groups

* Melinda will step down as co-chair of DINRG; replacement to be found.
  Melinda will continue as IRSG At-Large member.
* Proposals for new RGs on 6G, FIPE (“Future Internet Protocol 
  Evolution”, a.k.a. “NewIP"), and Email Signing discussed. Expect 
  Huawei to organise a FIPE side meeting alongside IETF 108.

# ANRP

Blog post highlighting upcoming ANRP talks: 
https://www.ietf.org/blog/ietf108-anrp-presentations/

# ANRW

Papers online and in the ACM Digital Library. Programme prepared and 
online. Registration open and advertised.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology -> RFC 8793
draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-randomness-improvements in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review (recently updated)
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g-05 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan-07 in IRSG review
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements-03 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRTF chair review

Started processing RFC errata backlog.

# Other

* Discussions re IETF 108 and 109 move to online-only
* Discussions re ITU NewIP proposals
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 15 July 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the June 2020 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
None
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
    
None
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.3. RFC Series Reports


–Begin Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–



```
The RPC process is finally settling down.  The most recent change to the 
V3 grammar was on June 23 and we expect we can avoid making any more; 
more recent production issues have been resolved by updates to the 
tooling, not the language.

There has not yet been an RFC published with an SVG image, and we 
believe that when we do, the SVG profile may turn out to need work. 
Fortunately, the SVG spec is sufficiently independent from the XML 
grammar that SVG changes should not affect the grammar.

At Jay Daley's request, John Levine made a github repo of the versions 
of the grammar that published RFCs have used.  There are a total of six, 
archived here:

https://github.com/rfc-format/v3grammar

Henrik Levkowetz, Peter St Andre, Robert Sparks, and John Levine set up 
an informal group to review and manage updates to the XML grammar.  It 
has not met since the last report but we hope it will meet again this 
month if members' health issues allow to review and finalize the v3 
grammar.
```

–End Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–


–Begin RSOC Chair Report, Sarah Banks–



```
We've been working and discussing two related items; the v3 work, and 
the SLA. The RSOC is in the process of working with John Levine to 
define the outstanding items on the v3 work, with the goal of 1. 
declaring the v3 work stable and 2. continuing to resolve issues as they 
arise. We ARE expecting the V3 format work to be declared stable 
imminently; we're working with the RPC and John to come to this 
agreement, and we expect to report that we are stable in next months' 
report.

With stability achieved, we're discussing what to do with the SLA next; 
we also expect to have more on the SLA in our August report. The working 
goal is to understand the changes and quantify this with the RPC, and 
then draft proposed changes to the SLA for discussion.
```

–End RSOC Chair Report, Sarah Banks–


#### 2.4. RZERC Liaison Report


–Begin RZERC Liaison Report, Jim Reid–



```
RZERC had another no-op conf call last month. Duane Wessels submitted 
two short documents on behalf of Verisign, one on introducing ZONEMD at 
the root and one on signing root-servers.net. RZERC decided it didn’t 
have the resources (or will?) to do a detailed analysis of these 
proposals. It agreed the work would need to be done elsewhere.

RZERC will probably punt these proposals to RSSAC who should then get 
the RSSAC Caucus to do the work. Whatever emerges from that will 
presumably come back to RZERC for consideration.

Both these 2 page docs have been put on google docs so RZERC could 
wordsmith them. So far, nobody’s made any changes. I expect these’ll be 
accepted as the consensus view of RZERC at its next meeting (July 21st?) 
and then thrown over the wall to RSSAC and/or SSAC.

Obviously, no meaningful work on ZONEMD at the root will start until the 
RFC (main author Duane Wessels) is published.
```

–End RZERC Liaison Report, Jim Reid–


### 3. Status of standards in EU ICT Standardisation


Jari Arkko reported that the European Commission has suspended the process of whitelisting standards that can be used for government procurement in the Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation (MSP).


Mirja Kühlewind asked how that will affect the IETF. Jari Arkko replied that it depends; they could decide to only allow standards from certain SDOs, or they could decide to just allow all standards in the field.


The IAB agreed that the current liaisons, Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky, should continue to monitor the situation and report back to the IAB. Jari Arkko will follow up with the liaisons.


### 4. IAB Program on Centralization


Wes Hardaker drafted text describing a proposed Centralization Analysis Program (CAP). He asked the IAB to review the current text, as well as the feedback provided by Jari Arkko. Wes will update the text based on the feedback he receives, and bring this back to a future IAB agenda.


### 5. Proposed Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program


Tommy Pauly reported that the draft description for the proposed Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program was sent to the architecture-discuss list for review.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that some of the feedback was about the need to clarify why this work should be done in an IAB Program rather than some other venue. She also asked how the IAB would define membership in this Program.


Tommy Pauly replied that he thinks this program should continue the trend towards more open Program membership. Mirja Kühlewind asked if there is a set of people who will work on things. Jari Arkko noted that having open membership does not preclude there being a group of people in the Program with clear action items.


Tommy Pauly noted that the Program is on the agenda to discuss with the IESG at one of the joint meetings around IETF 108. Jari Arkko, Mirja Kühlewind, Mark Nottingham, Colin Perkins, and Alvaro Retana all indicated that they are interested in working on this topic.


Tommy Pauly will work with Cindy Morgan to set up a mailing list for the proposed EDM Program.


### 6. COVID-19 impact workshop


Jari Arkko sent out a draft call for papers for a COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.


Mark Nottingham expressed concern that the scope of the workshop might be too broad. Jari Arkko agreed that the workshop should be scoped appropriately.


Alissa Cooper asked about the length and number of sessions needed to hold a successful virtual workshop; in order to attract papers, the workshop will need to have enough time for discussions. Mark Nottingham noted that it can be difficult for people to join several consecutive hours of video calls. Jeff Tantsura suggested that breaking out the topics into several shorter sessions might be preferable.


Jari Arkko will update the call for papers based on the feedback received and send it out to the IAB for review.


### 7. BOF Coverage for IETF 108


The IAB discussed BOF coverage for IETF 108.


* LOOPS: Wes Hardaker, Mirja Kühlewind (conflict permitting), Jared Mauch, Tommy Pauly
* ASDF: Ben Campbell
* EMAILCORE: Ben Campbell


### 8. IAB Open Meeting


The IAB briefly reviewed the agenda for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 108.


### 9. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-08-12 at 1330 UTC.


