
Minutes of the 2020-04-08 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* None


##### Observer:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


None


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-04-01 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-04-01)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-04-01: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the current ICANN Board Liaison and find out if he is willing to continue in the role past October.
* 2020-04-01: All to send conflict of interest disclosures to the IAB list.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-04-01: Cindy Morgan to post conflict of interest disclosures  

on the COI page.


##### New:


* 2020-04-08: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline and call for nominations text for the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair.
* 2020-04-08: Stephen Farrell to propose a list of IAB mailing lists that can be closed.
* 2020-04-08: Jared Mauch to reach out to John Levine regarding the moderation of the rfc-interest list.
* 2020-04-08: All to review the proposed text for the IAB mailing list conduct policy.
* 2020-04-08: Cindy Morgan to draft a call for feedback on the ICANN Board liaison.


### 2. RFC Editor Future Development Program Chairs


The IAB discussed how to go about finding one or more additional chairs for the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


The IAB agreed to send out a call for nominations with a longer duration, followed by a period of collecting feedback from the community.


Cindy Morgan will draft a timeline and call for nominations text for the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair position.


### 3. Use of Executive Sessions


The IAB discussed when it is appropriate to use executive sessions. When opening the IAB teleconferences up to observers, the previous IAB had agreed that the IAB would go into executive session to avoid reputational risk for an individual or group; for example, discussion of appointments or sensitive external relationships.


The current IAB agreed that this was still the appropriate model, and that they should default to transparency whenever possible.


### 4. IAB Mailing List Conduct


The IAB discussed whether to have a policy on IAB mailing list conduct, similar to the IETF’s policy in BCP 25.


Tommy Pauly drafted a policy for the IAB to review. Alissa Cooper noted that the IAB policy would need to explicitly state how and when the sergeant-at-arms deals with inappropriate postings, including escalation paths.


Stephen Farrell, the current sergeant-at-arms, noted that it would be helpful to have more than one sergeant-at-arms. Tommy Pauly volunteered to join him.


Mirja Kühlewind observed that some of the current IAB mailing lists may be inactive and can be closed. Stephen Farrell agreed to review [the current list of IAB mailing lists](https://www.iab.org/iab-mailing-lists/) and propose which ones can be closed.


Alissa Cooper noted that the rfc-interest list is on the IAB mailing lists page. Jared Mauch took an action to reach out to Temporary RFC Series Project Manager John Levine regarding moderation of that list.


The IAB agreed to continue refining the draft mailing list conduct policy via email.


### 5. IAB Retreat Planning


The IAB noted that it is very unlikely that they will be able to have a face-to-face retreat in June, as originally planned. The IAB agreed to cancel the planned face-to-face retreat, unless the IESG has strong objections.


Mirja Kühlewind asked the IAB to keep the original June dates free in their calendars, and to think about ways the IAB might have a virtual retreat.


The IAB agreed that it would still be valuable to have a joint face-to-face retreat with the IESG, once travel is possible again. Alissa Cooper will send out a Doodle poll with dates for later in the year.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB decided to solicit feedback on the IETF’s current liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors. Cindy Morgan will draft a call for feedback and send it out to the IAB for review.


