
Minutes of the 2020-06-10 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Zhenbin Li
* Mark Nottingham
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observers:


* (None)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle polls to select times for the joint meetings with the IESG for IETF 108.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-05-20 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-05-20)
* 2020-05-27 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-05-27)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-05-13: Stephen Farrell, Wes Hardaker, Jared Mauch, and Tommy Pauly to interview the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair candidates.
* 2020-05-20: Cullen Jennings to draft a proposal for codifying the length and rotation of RSOC membership terms.
* 2020-05-27: All leads for retreat breakout sessions to send their scheduling requests to Cindy Morgan by 1400 UTC on 2020-05-28.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to schedule breakout sessions for IAB retreat.
* 2020-05-27: Wes Hardaker to review the timeline and call for nominations text for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee appointment by 2020-05-29.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to send a call for nominations for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee appointment.
* 2020-05-27: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN NomCom appointment.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-05-27: Zhenbin Li to follow up with Deborah Brungard/Routing ADs about whether there is need for a formal liaison relationship with ETSI.


##### New:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-06-03: Mirja Kühlewind to write up a proposal for an IAB Open Meeting.
* 2020-06-03: Stephen Farrell and Colin Perkins to schedule a tech chat on contact tracing apps and permissionless innovation.
* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing.
* 2020-06-10: Stephen Farrell, Jari Arkko, Ben Campbell, and Wes Hardaker to write a proposal for what a workshop on COVID-19’s impact on the Internet might look like (i.e. virtual vs in-person, timing).
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to find out whether people would be willing to provide content for a possible plenary topic on the heroic efforts to keep Internet services up during COVID-19.
* 2020-06-10: Tommy Pauly to write a proposal for a potential IAB  

program on deployability.
* 2020-06-10: Wes Hardaker to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on centralization.
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on prioritization.
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to write something up (e.g. a blog post) on the factors that made Let’s Encrypt possible, and what factors would need to align for similar efforts on identity management to be successful.
* 2020-06-10: Tommy Pauly and Ben Campbell to brainstorm ideas on protocol maintenance (e.g. how to support implementors after a WG is closed, how to make it easier to find RFCs).
* 2020-06-10: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair appointment.


### 2. Review Action Items from the Retreat


The IAB reviewed the outcomes of their recent virtual retreat, and added several new action items to their list (see above).


The IAB discussed whether the IAB should take any action on codifying RSOC membership terms and rotations while the RFC Editor model is under discussion in the RFC Editor Future Development Program. The IAB agreed that they should not take any action without community input. Tommy Pauly suggested that the IAB could raise the issue in the Program and ask how they would like it to be handled. Cullen Jennings will send an email (as an individual) to the Program list to raise the question.


During the retreat, the IAB also identified several topics for potential future action items, but did not discuss them in detail:


* Running SWOT and other type of exercises with the community on state/trends of/in the Internet
* Potential interaction with the ISOC measurement project for deployment data, etc.
* Work with the Edu team on how to write a good RFC (which RFCs to read, highlight good examples)
* Best RFC award
* Brainstorm ways to hold virtual meetings/workshops effectively
* How to encourage effective asynchronous work
* DDoS/attack protection
* Active involvement in discussions that relate to broader Internet changes
* Possible IAB program to support new work


### 3. Executive Session: RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment of a second chair for the RFC Editor Future Development Program in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote.


