
Minutes of the 2020-02-19 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison, incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* John Levine (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Martin Thomson


##### Observers:


* Ben Campbell (incoming IAB)
* Jay Daley (IETF Executive Director)
* Cullen Jennings (incoming IAB)
* Jared Mauch (incoming IAB)
* Tommy Pauly (incoming IAB)
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


The report from the ICANN Board Liaison was moved to an executive session.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review


* 2020-02-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-05)
* 2020-02-12 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-12)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-02-12: Cindy Morgan to extend the call for nominations for chairs of the RFC Editor Future Development Program until 2020-02-24 at 2000 UTC.
* 2020-02-12: Ted Hardie to send out an e-vote on the ICANN TLG appointment.
* 2020-02-12: Alissa Cooper to email the IAB and IESG to confirm the dates and location of the joint IAB/IESG retreat.
* 2020-02-12: Alissa Cooper to follow up regarding letters of invitation for those who will need visas to attend the joint IAB/IESG retreat.
* 2020-02-05: Wes Hardaker to update the draft conflict of interest policy and send it to the IAB for review by 2020-02-12.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### New:


* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB agenda for IETF 107.
* 2020-02-19: Stephen Farrell to announce the approval of the Model-T Program on the model-t list.
* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to add a page to the IAB website for the Model-T Program.
* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the candidates for the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-02-19: All to send final comments on draft conflict of interest policy by 2020-02-21.
* 2020-02-19: Wes Hardaker to send e-vote on the IAB conflict of interest policy on 2020-02-24.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 19 February 2020

# Research Groups

* NMRG is rechartering
* Stephanie Wehner will step down as co-chair of QIRG, to be replaced by
Wojciech Kozlowski

# ANRP

* ANRP winners for IETF 107 announced: Ranysha Ware, Georgia Fragkouli,
and Ingmar Poese

# ANRW

Call for papers and travel grant applications issued. Budget and
sponsorship in progress.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology sent to RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review (revised draft needed)
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g-05 awaiting IRSG review

11 RFC errata awaiting review, relating to five RFCs produced by CFRG.

# Other

* Initial discussions with CloudFlare re possible ANRW/Diversity Grant
sponsorship
* Ongoing discussions re NewIP work in ITU and its relation to IRTF
* Ongoing scheduling for RG meetings at IETF 107
* Diversity travel grant committee selected; webpage in progress
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 19 February 2020

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the January 2020 monthly
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing
goal times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other
experts. Monthly reports can be found at:
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics

Other News:

IANA will be initiating requests to update the address for the IAB
for .arpa related domains.

IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:

None to Report.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
This month the [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] continued to
oversee the production center.

Overall, document production with the v3.x format and new tools is
becoming routine. Since the new process has three output formats rather
than one, text, HTML, and PDF, and the two new formats are much more
complex than the old one, it is not surprising that new formatting
problems keep cropping up as new I-D's exercise the tools and the
xml2rfc v3 grammar.

In some cases fixing xml2rfc bugs has involved changing the grammar.
When the fixing settles down we'll need to decide what to do about RFCs
published with intermediate versions of the grammar, with the likely
options being to go back and change the coding (not the text) or just to
live with it.

We had a discussion with an author who would like to include sections of
non-Latin text in an RFC. The main issue is that we don't have people
who can proofread languages other than English. In this case the text
is small chunks and the author understands that he'll need to proofread
carefully, but it's something to keep in mind for the future.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


–Begin RFC Series Oversight Committee Chair Report, Sarah Banks–



```
- Email sent to IAB and RFC-interest on the archival format and XML
implications (please review)

- SLA discussions are still underway; we are anticipating a chance of
being behind on this, as the v3 tools are still being iterated upon
and critical/sev1 bugs are still being reported. We are discussing
this monthly, and have invited the RPC to our calls, enabling us to
streamline updates and Q&A. We will continue to share updates as we
have them.
```

–End RFC Series Oversight Committee Chair Report, Sarah Banks–


### 3. BOF and Proposed RG Coverage at IETF 107


The IAB discussed coverage for BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 107. The IAB will discuss this further once the agenda has been set and the conflicts are known.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 107


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 107.


Via email, Stephen Farrell suggested adding an agenda item to discuss refactoring IAB Programs.


Colin Perkins noted that the Quantum Internet Proposed Research Group (QIRG) is in the process of being chartered as a full RG, and suggested that it would be a good group for the IAB to review at IETF 107. The IAB agreed.


Jay Daley reported that the IETF legal counsel will be attending IETF 107. Ted Hardie suggested inviting him to attend the joint IAB/IESG meeting on Sunday afternoon so that he can be introduced to everyone.


Ted Hardie requested that an item to appoint the IAB stream manager be added to Sunday’s agenda. Alissa Cooper added that IAB-RSOC membership should also be added to the agenda.


Cindy Morgan will update the IAB’s agenda for IETF 107 based on this discussion.


### 5. Model-T Program


The IAB voted to approve the creation of the Internet Threat Model (model-t) Program. Stephen Farrell will notify the members of the model-t@iab.org mailing list. Cindy Morgan will set up the Program web page on the IAB website.


### 6. ICANN TLG Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB appointed a candidate to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will follow up with the candidates and make the appropriate announcement.


### 7. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB discussed the draft conflict of interest policy. Wes Hardaker noted that there are two outstanding points to be resolved:


1. In the “Topics Requiring Disclosure Consideration” section, making the list items about confirmations and appointments generic
2. In the “Sources of Potential Conflicts” section, clarifying what is required for independent contractors who have signed NDAs.


Wes Hardaker asked the IAB to send their final edits to the text by 2020-02-21. He will send out an e-vote to approve the text on 2020-02-24.


### 8. RFC Future Development Program Chairs


The extended call for nominations for chairs for the RFC Future Development Program closes on 2020-02-24. Ted Hardie asked the IAB to encourage people to submit nominations.


### 9. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed that it does not need to hold a teleconference on 2020-02-26. The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-03-04.


### 10. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Report


In an executive session, Harald Alvestrand briefed the IAB on recent discussions in the ICANN Board of Directors.


