
Minutes of the 2020-11-04 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Cullen Jennings


##### Observers


* Warren Kumari
* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on the IETF Tools Team and the IAB EDM Program was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-10-14 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-10-07)
* 2020-10-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-10-21)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing. (Scheduled for 2021-01-13)
* 2020-10-21: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-10-21: Wes Hardaker to ask Stephen Farrell to give an update on the Model-T Program during the IAB Open meeting at IETF 109.
* 2020-10-21: All IAB to review the revised proposal for IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups and provide any new feedback on the IAB list.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “[Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).” (Note: Check back in on this at the end of October.)
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.
* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings to ask the RSOC Chair to forward the message about the RFC XML and Style Guide change management team to the IETF list and point people to the discussion on rfc-interest.
* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings and Mark Nottingham to ask the RSOC Chair for a monthly report out of RSOC.


##### New:


* 2020-11-04: Alissa Cooper to add an item on the response to the  

liaison statement on “Clarifying domain namespace  

responsibilities” to the joint IAB/IESG agenda.
* 2020-11-04: Mark Nottingham and Wes Hardaker to review the changes to the Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups proposal in GitHub.
* 2020-11-04: Mirja Kühlewind to send the proposal on Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups out to the community for review (once Mark and Wes’s reviews are complete).
* 2020-11-04: Cindy Morgan to send a call for nominations for the ISOC Board of Trustees appointments on 2020-11-10.
* 2020-11-04: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-dedr-report out for community review.
* 2020-11-04: Jari Arkko to confirm that the latest version of the papers submitted to the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop are posted.


### 2. Response to Liaison Statement, “Clarifying domain namespace responsibilities”


Alissa Cooper reported that a small team is working on a response to the liaison from ICANN on “[Clarifying domain namespace responsibilities](https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1705/).” She added that they will likely try to set up a follow-up meeting with people on the ICANN side to discuss matters in more detail. Alissa said that she expects the draft response to be available for review soon, and that she will add it to the agenda for one of the joint IAB/IESG meetings around IETF 109.


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 109


Jari Arkko and Cullen Jennings will cover the MADINAS BOF at IETF 109.


### 4. IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups


Mark Nottingham and Wes Hardaker will review the changes to the Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups proposal in GitHub. Once those reviews are complete, Mirja Kühlewind will merge the changes and send the proposal out to the community for review.


### 5. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment Timeline & Messaging


The IAB approved the timeline and messaging for the IETF’s 2021 appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for nominations on 2020-11-10.


### 6. draft-iab-dedr-report


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-dedr-report-01 out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 7. COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop


Stephen Farrell asked the IAB to review the text of the email he plans to send to the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop attendees. He also asked that any IAB or IESG members who would like to attend the workshop but are not currently on the mailing list to let him know. Mirja Kühlewind said that she would mention this on the IESG call on 2020-11-05.


Jari Arkko noted that a few of the papers have been updated since they were originally posted on the website; he will double-check and send any updates to Cindy Morgan for posting.


### 8. IETF Tools Team and the IAB EDM Program


Tommy Pauly asked whether Henrik Levkowetz’s resignation will have an impact on the Tools Team, in particular in how the Tools Team relates to the work going on in the IAB’s Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program. Alissa Cooper replied that Jay Daley is working on a transition plan with other contractors, and that she does not expect there to be any gaps.


