
Minutes of the 2020-12-16 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell
* Mark Nottingham


##### Observers


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Mirja Kühlewind asked the IAB to review the email she sent with topics leftover from the last IAB retreat to see if there was anything the IAB wanted to pick up work on. Tommy Pauly suggested adding a topic on how to work better in a virtual environment to the agenda of the 2021-01-06 IAB meeting.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the confirmation of the IESG slate from NomCom will happen via an e-vote starting on 2020-12-21.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-12-02 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-12-02)


#### 1.4. Action item review


* Done:
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the incumbent regarding the IRTF Chair appointment.
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the incumbent regarding the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-12-02: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB website with the new text about refactored Programs and Administrative Support Groups.
* 2020-12-02: Mirja Kühlewind to subscribe to the ISOC Governance Reform Working Group mailing list.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web” (https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.


##### New:


* 2020-12-16: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-dedr-report to the RFC Editor for publication as an RFC.
* 2020-12-16: Cindy Morgan to start an e-vote to confirm the IESG slate (on 2020-12-21).


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison report – December 2020
 
The Internet Society and the IETF announced a new long term strategic 
agreement to support ongoing work on open standards. Details are 
available in the following press release: 
https://www.internetsociety.org/news/press-releases/2020/the-internet-
society-and-ietf-announce-new-strategic-agreement-to-support-ongoing-
work-on-open-standards/
 
Internet Society announced its Action Plan 2021 detailing the plans for 
the organization for 2021. This plan is available at:
https://www.internetsociety.org/action-plan/2021/
 
Additionally, the Internet Society Foundation announced their Action 
Plan 2021, and it is available at: 
https://www.isocfoundation.org/action-plan/action-plan-2021/
 
The Internet Way of Networking (IWN) project published a white paper on 
"Considerations for Mandating Open Interfaces"
https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/doc/2020/white-paper-
considerations-for-mandating-open-interfaces/ An early draft of this 
report was shared with the IAB for their input.
 
The Measurement project launched their new Insights platform on 2 Dec 
2020. The platform itself is available at:
https://insights.internetsociety.org/ And a blog post announcing the 
launch with some details on the platform is available at: 
https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/2020/12/insights-platform-now-live-
a-deeper-data-driven-view-of-the-internet/
 
Many organizations have been looking at the impact of COVID 19 on their 
organizations and communities. In that vein, the Internet Society looked 
at the impact in two specific regions (1) Afghanistan, Nepal, and Sri 
Lanka; and 2) Middle East and North Africa). These reports are available 
here:  https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/doc/2020/the-impact-of-
the-covid-19-pandemic-on-internet-performance-in-afghanistan-nepal-and-
sri-lanka/
https://www.internetsociety.org/resources/doc/2020/impact-of-covid-19-
on-the-internet-ecosystem-in-mena/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


The IAB thanks the Internet Society for their continued financial  

support of the IETF.


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 16 December 2020.

# Research Groups

The CFRG, COIN, HRPC, ICCRG, MAPRG, NWCRG, and QIRG groups met at IETF 
109; several other groups are holding regular interim meetings. 

Side meetings on FIPE, 6GIP, and PidLoc at IETF 109 targeting IRTF, but 
lack appropriate focus. Ongoing discussions around revising the routing 
research group, primarily driven by the proponents of the proposed FIPE 
RG.

Seeking co-chairs for DINRG and CFRG.


# ANRP

Extremely successful ANRP award talks in IRTFOPEN at IETF 109. Received 
76 nominations for 2021 awards; review in progress.


# ANRW

Discussing format and potential co-chairs for 2021 workshop.


# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 completed IESG conflcit review; revision needed
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch ready for IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-panrg-what-not-to-do in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g in IRSG final poll; revision needed
draft-irtf-panrg-questions in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRSG review

Several errata for RFC 7748 have been addressed. CFRG chairs working to 
resolve other outstanding errata.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 16 December 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for both the October 2020 and 
  November 2020 monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to 
  meet 90% of processing goal times.  These times include the steps that 
  ICANN has control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, 
  document authors or other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
  https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
2020 IANA Annual Customer Survey has closed.  The results will be shared 
in the new year.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
    
None
(Post IETF-109 Meeting Minutes under review and will be reported at the 
next IAB business meeting)
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–



```
The [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] is preparing for end of year 
tasks, most notably the annual review of the RPC.

Three years ago Heather [Flanagan] arranged for two external 
organizations, the Computer History Museum and the Swedish national 
library, to archive RFCs. We haven't been in touch with either lately so 
the [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] is trying to get back in 
touch to be sure they are still archiving our RFCs, and to be sure they 
are aware of the new archival PDF-A format.

Our informal group, Henrik Levkowetz, Peter St Andre, Robert Sparks, got
formal endorsement from the RSOC to review and manage updates to the XML
grammar and finally met on Monday [2020-12-14].
```

–End Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–


#### 2.5. RSSAC Liaison Report


–Begin RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–



```
ICANN's root Name service strategy and Implementation [octo-16]:
Most comments are around the ICANN's root Name service strategy and 
Implementation public comment. RSSAC will probably be a bit late in 
posting the comment. Some statements were drafted and are under review 
for a 48h review.  

The context is the strategy for ICANN to run their root server and it is 
being questioned whether RSSAC - as advisory committee - provides 
comments on how ICANN should run its root. On the other hand, their 
statement is based on their perception of the Root Server System ( and 
the RSOs) and affects both of them.

The document was reviewed on 2020-10-30 during a call and submitted to 
ICANN members for more transparency and further meetings / exchanges may 
be planned between RSSAC and OCTO.

> To my opinion the IAB should at least comment section 4.1.2 
"Supporting Root Service Decentralization with Hyperlocal" which could 
potentially result in unmanaged nodes serving the root.  The public 
comment period [comment] is open until December 8. 

> Form public comment [comment]

“””
It describes a multi-pronged strategy that expands and enhances existing 
approaches It also facilitates the standardization and implementation of 
technologies, such as "hyperlocal" (described later in this document), 
which improves the decentralization of the root name service to mitigate 
risks that the RSS may face over time.

Because this strategy is comprehensive in nature, some of its aspects 
may impact ICANN org, the ICANN community, and the Internet as a whole. 

“””

[octo-16] https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/octo-016-26oct20-en.pdf
[comment] https://www.icann.org/public-comments/root-name-service-implementation-2020-10-27-en

RSSAC37/38 related work items:

• RSSAC published RSSAC 049 to state their support for joining the 
  empowered community. 
• RSSAC shared the MOU with the GWG
• RSSAC published RSSAC 047 that describes the metrics measuring the 
  RSO / RSS expectations. There is also PoC implementation 
  https://github.com/icann/root-metrics
• RSSAC is working on the financial implications associated and 
  accountability in general. This reflection should be provided as a 
  response to the GWG output. There are at least two aspects to 
  consider. The first one is whether accountability needs to be 
  associated with money exchange and the second is what financial aspect 
  will be considered to increase accountability. There seems to be a 
  consensus that the question should be shared informally with the GWG.

Early Warning / Statistical Prediction of RSS Failure New Work parties:

A statement of work for “Early Warning / Statistical Prediction of RSS 
Failure” WP has been provided. The goals are to determine what a failure 
of the RSS is, what early signs are as well as what metric should be 
considered. The proposal is being sent to the caucus for discussion.

Abandoned WP:

• A WP related to geographic diversity received no feed back and support 
  which was surprising. Anycast placement or under-served area fall into 
  the same bucket and did not raise the expected attraction. 
• Current behavior of DNS resolvers is abandoned.

Items for RSSAC / RSSAC Caucus in 2021

• IMRS Hyperlocal deployment:

> unclear to me how this work is handled by RSSAC but it seems to me 
this does not raised significant interest. I think this is an important 
work to be done.
```

–End RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–


#### 2.6. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
2020-12-16 ICANN report

This report covers the time from 2020-10-14 (October) to the date above 
(December).

New TLDs

Meetings continue. It looks as if we'll have a draft report out of the 
SubPro (Subsequent Procedures) WG Real Soon Now - my impression is that 
they'll attempt to reprise the 2012 round with a bunch of process fixes, 
but not reimagine the process.

EPDP phase 2 aka SSAD

There seems to be a significant discussion taking place in Brussels 
about how the GDPR should be properly interpreted. The official form of 
publication of interim papers in Brussels is apparently called a "leak".

It will take a while before this can be properly analyzed to figure out 
whether it makes the centralized gateway for authorized WHOIS data 
queries more or less possible to implement.

SSAC report 113 aka the No-Such-TLD

The ball has been tossed back and forth between the IETF and ICANN a few 
more times. There is still no strong will on either side to pick it up; 
it's been suggested that we (the IAB + ICANN) can find a better 
interpretation of where the division between IETF's and ICANN's 
responsibility goes than the one we have now; that might help.

Business transactions to watch

The biggest deal of this period was the announcement that Donuts is 
buying Afilias. Unlike the .org proposal, this seems to be seen as a 
straight-up commercial transaction, and hasn't attracted any angry mobs 
of protesters or worrisome legal opinions yet.

It does represent one of the biggest consolidations in the industry so 
far.

Corona related info (the topic formerly known as "meetings")

Everyone seems resigned to having most of 2021 be virtual too. If any of 
them are physical, the March meeting (very unlikely, but not announced 
to be virtual) will be in Cancun, the June meeting will be in the Hague, 
and the October meeting will be in Seattle.

The special DNS signing ceremony that was performed in April signed key 
material up to Q1 2021; it is likely that the next signing ceremony will 
be performed along the same lines.

Financials

The accounts of FY 2020 [1] ended with a reasonably solid surplus due to 
all the money saved on not travelling. The financial plans for 2021 
acknowledge a great deal of uncertainty, naturally; given that the 
reserve fund is now at its stated goal, the financials seem to be as 
good as one can reasonably expect.

[1] https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/governance/current-en
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


### 3. draft-iab-dedr-report


The IAB approved publishing of draft-iab-dedr-report-01 as an Informational RFC on the IAB Stream. Cindy Morgan will forward the document to the RFC Editor.


### 4. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2021-01-06 at 2130 UTC.


### 5. Any Other Business


Jari Arkko reported that he has started a discussion with the IANA Program about whether the Program is still needed as currently defined.


Zhenbin Li reported that he is in initial discussions with Mirja Kühlewind and Mark Nottingham about revamping the Liaison Oversight Program.


The IANA Program and the Liaison Oversight Program will be added to a future IAB agenda in January or February 2021 to discuss the next steps.


Cindy Morgan reported that the AMS offices will be closed between 2020-12-25 and 2021-01-03.


