
Minutes of the 2020-04-15 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Mark Nottingham
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observer:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


The agenda item on the ETSI Non-IP Networking ISG was removed from the agenda, as there is a small group planning to meet to discuss this and propose a strategy for the IAB.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-04-01 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-04-01)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-04-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-04-08)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-04-08: Jared Mauch to reach out to John Levine regarding the moderation of the rfc-interest list.
* 2020-04-08: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline and call for nominations text for the RFC Editor Future Development Program Chair.
* 2020-04-08: Stephen Farrell to propose a list of IAB mailing lists that can be closed.
* 2020-04-08: All to review the proposed text for the IAB mailing list conduct policy.
* 2020-04-08: Cindy Morgan to draft a call for feedback on the ICANN Board liaison.
* 2020-04-01: Cindy Morgan to post conflict of interest disclosures on the COI page.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-04-01: All to try to widen the pool of chair candidates for the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


##### New:


* 2020-04-15: Cindy Morgan to send the call for nominations for the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair.
* 2020-04-15: Jared Mauch to send a note to the lists the IAB proposes to close, saying that unless there is an objection, those lists will be closed in 7 days, and future discussion can be taken to architecture-discuss.
* 2020-04-15: Tommy Pauly to reach out to Eliot Lear regarding moderation of the rfc-futures list.
* 2020-04-15: Tommy Pauly to update the proposed SAA policy for IAB lists and send it out to architecture-discuss.
* 2020-04-15: Mirja Kühlewind to draft a SWOT/PEST analysis questionnaire for the IAB.
* 2020-04-15: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Board Liaison.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 13 April 2020

# Research Groups

* NMRG recharter completed
* QIRG approved as full RG; IAB reviewed scheduled for 13 May
* Disagreement around timing and necessity of IPR disclosure relating
 to RFC 8681; IETF stream, but originally from NWCRG; NWCRG co-chair
 is co-inventor on patent, disclosure made by current licensee.
* Virtual meetings held for NWCRG, DINRG, COIN, HRPC, and QIRG;
 meetings for NMRG, T2TRG, ICNRG, GAIA, and CFRG scheduled.

# ANRP

Nothing to report

# ANRW

Paper submission deadline extended to 24 April; limited submissions, 
likely due to effects of COVID-19. Budget and sponsorship in progress. 
Initial planning to switch to virtual meeting if IETF 108 in-person 
meeting cancelled.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-cfrg-randomness-improvements-10 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g-05 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites-11 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan-07 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements-03 awaiting review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 awaiting review

14 RFC errata awaiting review, relating to 7 RFCs produced by CFRG. 

# Other

* Ongoing discussions re NewIP work in ITU and similar work in ETSI
* Ongoing discussions re IETF 107 and 108 in-person meeting cancellation 
* Diversity travel grants postponed to IETF 109 in Bangkok
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
ICANN report - up to April 13, 2020
 This report covers ICANN events from March 11 to April 13, 2020 
(roughly).

ICANN and COVID-19: Meetings
The work of ICANN continues to be strongly influenced by COVID-19. The 
staff is largely on lockdown (rules varying by country) and working from 
home; all travel is cancelled.

ICANN has now officially announced the transition of ICANN 68 in Kuala 
Lumpur to a virtual format; the details are still in the process of 
being worked out (we have more time for planning than we had with 
Cancun, but a number of different challenges - for instance, one can’t 
gather staff in one office to support the meeting as was done with 
Cancun, which was supported out of the Los Angeles office).

Planning for Virtual ICANN 68 is ongoing.

ICANN and COVID-19: Abuse

As with any significant event with a name on it, the COVID-19 crisis has 
sparked a number of registrations of domain names - some of which are 
being used to offer information about the crisis; others of which have 
been used as a base from which to launch frauds and cyberattacks of 
various forms.

ICANN is participating in the COVID-19 Cyber Threat Coalition, a 
cooperation that tries to address these attacks and use all means at the 
disposal of the members to stop them.

This crisis has also served as a test under fire of the “Framework to 
Address Abuse”, which is a coalition of many of ICANN’s contracted 
parties trying to address abuse in ways that go above and beyond what 
their contracts with ICANN mandate that they should do.

ICANN and the .org sale

Ethos and PIR have revised their proposed Public Interest Commitments 
and put those out for public comment in their process, subsequently 
revising them and presenting them to ICANN. ICANN has in its turn 
published these for a seven-day public comment period. The shortened 
public comment period is due to the fact that PIR has not agreed to an 
extension of the deadline for an ICANN decision beyond April 20.

The Attorney Generals of California and Pennsylvania are still 
considering the deal and its implications.

ICANN and the .com contract renewal

ICANN held a public comment period on the .com contract renewal, which 
resulted in a number of comments. The comments were considered by the 
ICANN organization and staff, and in the end the ICANN president decided 
that the contract should be signed, as this was the action that was in 
the public interest. 

GDPR and EPDP phase 2

The EPDP team has published its addendum to the phase 2 initial report, 
which contains a number of recommendations (“Priority 2”) that were not 
presented in the initial report. Public comment on the phase 1 report 
closes on April 27; public comment on the addendum closes on May 5.

RSSAC / Root operators / GWG

The biggest news item here is the selection of Ted Hardie to be chair of 
the working group in charge of the Root Server System governance 
revision.

Finances

It’s clear to everyone that ICANN’s draft FY21 operating plan and budget 
needs heavy revision in the light of the COVID-19 crisis. There seems to 
be few reasons to fear for ICANN’s financial stability, but the numbers 
will clearly change. No draft revised budget has so far been published.

Reports and stuff

SSAC has published its paper on the implications of DNS over HTTPS and 
DNS over TLS as SAC109.

The Names Collision Analysis Project (NCAP) Study 1 public comment 
period closed on March 31. There were on the order of 5 comments.

The initial report of the review of all rights protection mechanisms 
(URS, UDRP and so on) was published on March 18, and is open for 
comments until April 27.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 15 April 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the March 2020 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
 
Twleve .arpa related requests were completed to update the contact 
information from the IASA to IETF LLC.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
None to Report. 

In person meeting in Vancouver has been rescheduled for end of April.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
This month the [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] continued to 
oversee the production center.  Document production continues to become 
routine although there is a steady stream of software issues that cause 
format problems in rendered documents.  At this point they are minor 
enough and Henrik [Levkowetz] is addressing them quickly enough that 
they aren't delaying the process.

He is working with Julian [Reschke] to update 7991bis to include XML 
changes since we cut over to V3 XML, and he is working with Robert 
Sparks and Jay Daley to propose a process, perhaps an IAB program, to 
review and finalize the final version of what we might call V3++.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


### 3. RFC Editor Future Development Program Chairs


The IAB agreed on the text for the call for nominations for additional chair(s) for the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


Jari Arkko will reach out to the candidates from the first round of chair selection before Cindy Morgan sends out the call for nominations.


### 4. IAB Mailing Lists


Stephen Farrell proposed that the IAB close the following mailing lists:


* caris-attendees@iab.org
* emserv-discuss@iab.org
* i18n-discuss@iab.org
* inip-discuss@iab.org
* internetgovtech@iab.org
* iotsi@iab.org
* iotsu@iab.org
* marnew@iab.org
* privsec-discuss@iab.org
* stackevo-discuss@iab.org


The IAB agreed to close those lists. Jared Mauch will send an email to each of those lists, noting that unless there is any objection, the IAB will close the list in one week. Further discussions may be taken to the architecture-discuss list.


The IAB also discussed the proposed sergeant-at-arms policy for IAB mailing lists.


Mirja Kühlewind asked how Program lists would be handled under this policy, as Program Leads (or Chairs) are generally the moderators for those lists. Stephen Farrell replied that it might be worth explicitly stating the Program mailing lists may be handled differently. Tommy Pauly will reach out to Eliot Lear about moderation of the rfc-futures list.


Alissa Cooper noted that the current policy text points to the IETF SAA templates, and the IAB will need their own templates. Tommy Pauly will create a version of those templates for the IAB.


Tommy Pauly will update the proposed text for the SAA policy based on this discussion, and send it out to the architecture-discuss list for comments.


### 5. IAB Retreat Planning


The IAB discussed planning for a virtual retreat during the first week of June 2020. Mirja Kühlewind suggested that it might be valuable for the IAB to do a SWOT/PEST analysis before the retreat in order to be able to do some more strategic planning. Several people who participated in a similar exercise before the IESG’s October 2019 retreat agreed that it was useful. Mirja will draft a questionnaire and sent it out to the IAB for review.


The IAB will continue to collect additional retreat topics in parallel via the wiki.


Mirja Kühlewind asked the IAB to think about ways to introduce a social component to the virtual retreat.


### 6. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Cindy Morgan will send a call for feedback on the current ICANN Board Liaison.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-04-29 at 1330 UTC.


