
Minutes of the 2020-09-23 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Tommy Pauly


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle poll to select a  

time for the IETF 109 BOF Coordination call.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-09-09 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-09-09)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-9-23 meeting.)
* 2020-08-12: Jari Arkko (with Wes Hardaker) to start a re-write of draft-arkko-arch-infrastructure-centralisation and post it on Github.
* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web.” (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-10-28 meeting.)
* 2020-09-09: All IAB to forward the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop Call for Papers to interested parties.
* 2020-09-09: Wes Hardaker and Jari Arkko to propose a response to the public comment on the GNSO New gTLD Subsequent Procedures Draft Final Report (comments due 2020-09-30).


##### New:


* 2020-09-23: Wes Hardaker to reach out to Harald Alvestrand about SAC113.
* 2020-09-23: Cindy Morgan to send a reminder of the call for papers for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop on 2020-09-30.


### 2. Alternate TLDs in the DNS tree


The IAB discussed the text for the IAB’s proposed response to the [public comment on the GNSO New gTLD Subsequent Procedures Draft Final Report](https://www.icann.org/public-comments/gnso-new-gtld-subsequent-draft-final-report-2020-08-20-en).


Jari Arkko asked whether the IAB’s response should indicate that it is only addressing a limited part of the document that is relevant to the IETF. Wes Hardaker agreed that would be reasonable to add.


Alissa Cooper asked for clarification about ICANN’s position on collisions in the home, corp, and mail TLDs. Wes Hardaker replied that SSAC is currently doing a study on this, but that he believes the current position is to redirect applicants away from these to avoid collisions.


Alissa Cooper asked whether RFC 2826 is in scope for this document; is there a possibility that new gTLD delegations could create a new root? Wes Hardaker replied that he would like to see an affirmation that they acknowledge that having the DNS as a global unique namespace is critical.


Jari Arkko, Wes Hardaker and Alissa Cooper will continue to refine the text for the IAB’s response, and take it to the mailing list for further review.


Wes Hardaker will follow up with Harald Alvestrand about the recent proposals on Private-Use TLDs (SSAC113).


### 3. IAB Programs


Stephen Farrell reported that he is working with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind on a proposal to refactor IAB Programs. He suggested bringing this topic back to discuss further at the IAB meeting on 2020-10-07.


### 4. COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop


The deadline for the call for papers for the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop is 2020-10-09. Jari Arkko reported that they have received a couple of papers so far, and that he expects more to come in closer to the deadline. Colin Perkins asked IAB members to promote the workshop via their social media channels. Cindy Morgan will send out a reminder about the call for papers on 2020-09-30.


### 5. EC MSP ICT Standardisation – Rolling Plan update 2021


Jari Arkko reported that Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky have updated the [wiki page](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/iab/wiki/Multi-Stake-Holder-Platform) for the 2021 revision of the European Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation rolling plan.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-10-07 at 1330 UTC.


