
Minutes of the 2020-01-22 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison)
* John Levine (RFC Editor Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Martin Thomson
* Brian Trammell
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Christian Huitema
* Jeff Tantsura


##### Observers:


* Ben Campbell
* Cullen Jennings
* Tommy Pauly
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle poll to select a time for the IETF 107 BOF Coordination call.


An item on draft-iab-for-the-users was added to the agenda.


An item on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2019-12-18 business meeting – (draft submitted 2019-12-19)
* 2020-01-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-01-08)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-01-15 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-01-15)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### New:


* 2020-01-22: Stephen Farrell and Wes Hardaker to review the community discussion on the draft IAB conflict of interest policy and synthesize it for the IAB.
* 2020-01-22: Mark Nottingham to post the updated version of draft-iab-for-the-users to the Datatracker.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to send out an e-vote on whether to send draft-iab-for-the-users out for community review.
* 2020-01-22: Mark Nottingham to draft text for a cover letter to forward along with the IAB’s comments on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill to the independent monitor reviewing the legislation.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to forward the IAB’s comments on the Assistance and Access Bill to the independent monitor reviewing the legislation.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie, Stephen Farrell, and Alissa Cooper to interview the ICANN Technical Liaison Group candidates.
* 2020-01-22: Ted Hardie to send e-vote on 2020-01-27 to confirm the IESG slate presented by NomCom.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-01-08: Jari Arkko to send the draft Program description text for an IAB Program on Model-T to the model-t@iab.org list.
* 2020-01-08: Alissa Cooper, Wes Hardaker, Brian Trammell, and Jari Arkko to interview the ISOC Board of Trustees candidates.
* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send message to architecture-discuss about potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after draft-iab version is posted).


##### Done:


* 2020-01-08: Stephen Farrell to work with Cindy Morgan to set up a chirp@iab.org mailing list for discussions on challenges for Internet Resilience.
* 2020-01-08: Ted Hardie to send the draft IAB conflict of interest policy out for IESG and community review.
* 2020-01-08: Ted Hardie to draft a call for nominations to chair the RFC Editor Future Development Program and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2019-12-11: Jari Arkko, Stephen Farrell, and Christian Huitema to make a recommendation about how to proceed with the Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) appointments.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
Internet Society Liaison Report — January 2020

Action Plan 2020 Projects Begin

The new year saw the reorganization of Internet Society staff to better 
support the project work called out in the 2020 Action Plan. The Action 
Plan hinges around eight projects, each focused on some of the most 
pressing issues facing the Internet. The plan is available at 
https://www.internetsociety.org/action-plan/2020/. A pdf version is also 
available at: https://www.internetsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/
2019/12/ActionPlan2020_EN.pdf. Projects include Community Networks, 
Internet Exchange Points, Measuring the Internet, Encryption, Internet 
Way of Networking, MANRS, Time Security, and Open Standards Everywhere. 

NDSS 2020 Announces Draft Program

The Network and Distributed System Security Symposium announced the list 
of accepted papers (https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss2020/accepted-
papers/) along with a draft program for the upcoming event 
(https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-program/2020-program/). In 
addition, there are five workshops planned for the event: QUIC Privacy 
and Security (QUIPS), Measurements, Attacks, and Defenses for the Web 
(MADWeb), Learning from Authoritative Security Experiment Results 
(LASER), Binary Analysis Research (BAR), and Decentralized IoT Systems 
and Security (DISS).  With around 100 tentative accepted papers, two 
keynotes, and five workshops, it is expected to be a busy week in San 
Diego.

Letter Addressing Proposed Amendments to Indian Intermediary Liability 
Rules

The Internet Society coordinated and announced (https://
www.internetsociety.org/blog/2020/01/strong-encryption-is-central-to-
good-security-indias-proposed-intermediary-rules-puts-it-at-risk/) a 
letter signed by nearly thirty computer security and cryptography 
experts from around the world expressing concern that proposed 
amendments to intermediary liability rules could weaken security and 
limit the use of strong encryption on the Internet. (https://
www.internetsociety.org/open-letters/india-intermediary-guidelines/) 

Proposed sale of Public Interest Registry (PIR) To Ethos Capital

Discussion continues around the proposed sale of the Public Interest 
Registry (PIR), operator of the .ORG, .NGO, and .ONG domains, to Ethos 
Capital. For more information, see: https://www.keypointsabout.org/
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month [ending] 17 January 2020

# Research Groups

* Kenny Paterson stepped down as CFRG chair; replaced by Stanislav 
  Smyshlyaev
* NMRG is rechartering

# ANRP

Selected ANRP winners:
* IETF 107: Ranysha Ware, Georgia Fragkouli, and Ingmar Poese
* IETF 108: Chaoyi Lu, Shehar Bano (deferred from IETF 106)
* IETF 109: Debopam Bhattacherjee 
* IETF 111: Sadjad Fouladi (deferred due to visa issues)
Announcements to be made prior to each meeting.

# ANRW

TPC selected. Call for papers issued. Budget and sponsorship in 
progress. 

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-terminology in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-deployment-guidelines with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG review

10 RFC errata awaiting review, relating to five RFCs produced by CFRG. 

# Other

* Agreement with NetFlix to sponsor diversity travel grants for IETF 
  108.
* Solicited IRSG review of IAB CoI policy
* Solicited IRSG review of IESG request to obsolete RFC 5050
* Liaison statement received from ETSI ISG ZSM to NMRG 
* Discussed ISOC Foundation Research awards with Sarah Armstrong (IRTF
  chair invited to meeting to discuss these, but unable to attend).
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 22 January 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for November 2019 and 98% for 
December 2019 monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 
90% of processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN 
has control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document 
authors or other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
Results of 2019 IANA Customer Engagement Survey
https://www.icann.org/news/announcement-2019-12-11-en
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
   
MEETING MINUTES – BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Monday, November 17, 2019
Lunch Meeting at IETF-106, Singapore
1200 Local Time, 0400 UTC
 
Attendees:
Jay Daley, IETF LLC Executive Director
Jari Arkko, IAB IANA Program
Ted Hardie, IAB Chair
Alissa Cooper, IETF Chair
Portia Wenze-Danley, IETF LLC Administrative Director, Interim
Suzanne Woolf, IAB IANA Program
Russ Housley, IAB IANA Program
Harald Alvestrand, IETF liaison to ICANN Board
Kim Davies, VP, IANA Services, ICANN, President, Public Technical Identifiers (PTI)
Michelle Cotton, Protocol Parameters Engagement Sr. Manager
Sabrina Tanamal, Senior IANA Services Specialist
 
1. Introductions and Welcome
 
Welcomed Jay Daley to the lunch meeting and shared some background about 
this group.
 
T. Hardie: most of what we talked about during this meeting is about 
protocol parameter registries, but we'll also be discussing .arpa today.
 
2.  Review of Action Items from previous meetings
 
M.Cotton and K. Davies: preliminary review for the .arpa draft. 
Completed.

M. Cotton: Gather .arpa stats. Still in process.

M. Cotton: Check with Portia as to when supplemental agreement can be 
signed. Completed.

M. Cotton: Speak to R. Housley about a plan regarding IANA language and 
CCG assistance. Completed.

            - A. Cooper: since this concerns how IANA uses it and not 
how the IETF uses it, just get an agreement from the trust.

            - M. Cotton: we just want to make sure everyone is aware of 
this.

            - T. Hardie: you can brief Glenn to let him know that we are 
aware.

            - M. Cotton: will reach out to Glenn and give updates if 
there is any pushback.

M. Cotton and K. Davies: Ask Paul about back-up regarding TZ Database 
coordination. Completed.

3. IANA Services Activity

1164 IETF-related requests. No new stand-alone registries, 17 new sub-
registries were added since IETF-105.

4. Update on Deliverables

The 2019 supplemental agreement was approved and signed in July 2019. 
The reassignment of the MoU to the IETF LLC was also fully completed in 
October 2019. The 2020 Supplemental Agreement has been drafted and sent 
to this group for review and comment.

Registry Workflow System work is progressing. Continuing development on 
using the new system for first come first served requests. Plan to 
launch system in early to mid-2020 to begin processing Private 
Enterprise Number requests and then begin to add other FCFS registries.

K. Davies: this is a multiyear project. We're building the workflow 
component and trying to build a holistic system.

M. Cotton: we did the registration procedures review, and the list is 
long. We found a lot of similarities in the registration procedures 
between the registries and will reach out to ADs to see if we can update 
the language and decrease the list.

A. Cooper: is 8126bis open? A note on that, it might be interesting to 
have the list of the most common denominator type that we expect for 
authors and working group chairs.

M. Cotton: we've been pointing authors to the terminology for 
registration procedures, the status column is a separate topic, authors 
need to consider whether it's appropriate to add a status column.

K. Davies: we've been discussing having a set of templates to guide 
authors. If they choose not to use one of the templates, then further 
discussion is required.

T. Hardie: if you can keep the documentation out of the RFC, it will be 
so much simpler to update in the future.

5. Update on Projects

Annual engagement survey completed:

M. Cotton: this is more engagement focused than request focused. Not 
sure if it's valuable to send it to the announce list considering the 
low response rate.  We will be evaluating the language for the survey as 
well as the appropriate audience.

.arpa:

T. Hardie: when I step down, you'll have to get a new approver on the 
IAB side. For the .arpa document, I'd like to get these changes done 
soon. When do you want to make it public?

K. Davies: as far as the ownership, is this an IANA or IAB document?

T. Hardie: it would be easier to make it an IAB stream. We can Fasttrack 
better than other streams.

K. Davies: we want to give a heads up to the root server operators.

S. Woolf: the other thing to think about has to do with timeline, it 
takes 6mo to renumber a root server because people are so conservative 
about this.

T. Hardie: I don't expect the process to be completed by March, just 
documented. We don't need to be tight about the name before the IP 
address or IP address before the name.

K. Davies: the preference is to do the renaming first and the IP change 
later. Renaming the host will solve the initial problems.

T. Hardie: iris.arpa is very low use.

M. Cotton: we're working with the ICANN DNS team to create stats 
regularly to see what the traffic is like.

T. Hardie: the second draft can go to D. Migault. IAB stream, K. Davies, 
can be the author. Jari, can you be a co-author?

J. Arkko agrees to co-author.

Better Documentation for Working Group Chairs, Shepherds, Authors and 
community

M. Cotton: the IESG is working to develop better guidance for shepherds 
about their role, brainstorming with Alvaro to determine what would be 
appropriate for the shepherds to check related to IANA . The information 
on our website is not optimal to see what they have to do with IANA 
(i.e., an early allocation request has to come from Working Group 
Chairs). If they need to steer authors, where can they go? We do send a 
list for new ADs.

A. Cooper: please remind Alvaro that he has another action item to 
update the outdated ID checklist, which includes the IC section. This 
would be the opportunity to update the checklist since it still 
referenced 5226.

QA Project - a little background about this project - it was suggested 
by the audit. We're developing a process and making sure we're asking 
the right questions for the review of our processing requests. This 
review will focus more on the detailed steps of request processing.  We 
hope to have more updates in March.

6. Discussion Items

Updating 8126bis - we're going to be very careful on how we update it, 
we want living documents on our website that we can continue to update 
so that RFC publication is not needed.

T. Hardie: especially for the parameter templates, they're going to be 
tough.

Port Group Update -

M. Cotton: we're reviewing if we need to make any changes to the process 
for reviewing port requests. We're hoping to meet in person again in 
Vancouver.

TZ Database update -

K. Davies: spoke to Paul, and he has identified an alternate. It did 
raise the question for us if they should be appointed by the IESG?

A. Cooper: we should designate the alternate, please submit a management 
item.

K. Davies: we will reach out to the alternate to formalize it.

T. Hardie: we can list them as primary and secondary.

M. Cotton: will wait to submit management item until K. Davies speaks to 
the alternate.

K. Davies: to evolve the management process for the TZ list. Will keep 
the group updated on the process. 

A. Cooper: will you guys filter the response or respond directly?

K. Davies: maybe we'll have a form that we can filter or guide them to 
the mailing list.

.int names:

K. Davies: we did an inventory of .int and compiled the ones we are 
going to delete.

T. Hardie: write a draft to compile the ones that are going to be 
removed - explained that they haven't been used.

Staffing changes:

New IANA Services Specialist starting this month.

7.  Informal Meeting Schedule

In person November 18, 2019 (Singapore – This meeting)

Phone January 27, 2020 (if needed)

In person March 23, 2020 (Vancouver)

Phone May 18, 2020 (if needed)

In person July 27, 2020 (Madrid)

Action Item: M. Cotton and K. Davies to turn around another draft 
for .arpa based on Suzanne and Ted's feedback.

Action Item: M. Cotton will reach out to Glenn and give updates if there 
is any pushback.

Action Item: IANA staff will write 1 document to remove each of the .int 
names

MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
In his first two weeks the new [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] 
has been talking to as many interested people as possible to try to get 
up to speed.

The production center's SLA remains suspended; he's been talking to them 
to see how best to evaluate proposed new SLA models.  Also, there has 
been continuing development of xml2rfc both to fix bugs and to deal with 
newly found formatting issues, with changes to the XML vocabulary.

The RSOC has not met yet this month.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


### 3. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


Stephen Farrell and Wes Hardaker will review the community discussion on the draft IAB conflict of interest policy and synthesize it for the IAB.


### 4. RFC Editor Future Development Program


Ted Hardie sent a call for nominations for the RFC Editor Future Development Program chairs on 2020-01-17. The call for nominations is open until 2020-02-07.


### 5. IAB Chair Selection Committee


After a brief discussion, Brian Trammell volunteered to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee for 2020.


### 6. draft-iab-for-the-users


Mark Nottingham said that he has an updated version of draft-iab-for-the-users that he believes is ready for community review. Mark will post the updated version to the Datatracker, and Ted Hardie will send out an e-vote on whether to send draft-iab-for-the-users out for community review.


### 7. Australian Assistance and Access Bill


Mark Nottingham reported that the Australian Assistance and Access Bill is currently under review by an independent monitor, and suggested that the IAB forward their previous comments on the bill to them.


Mark Nottingham will draft text for a cover letter to forward along with the IAB’s comments on the Australian Assistance and Access Bill to the independent monitor reviewing the legislation. Ted Hardie will forward the comments on behalf of the IAB.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB will not meet on 2020-01-29. The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-02-05.


### 9. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group in an executive session.


Alissa Cooper, Ted Hardie, and Stephen Farrell will interview the ICANN Technical Liaison Group candidates. Cindy Morgan will schedule the interviews.


### 10. Executive Session: Liaison from ISOC NomCom


The IAB discussed a liaison from the Internet Society NomCom in an executive session.


### 11. Executive Session: Discussion of IESG Slate from NomCom


Alissa Cooper recused herself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB discussed the IESG slate presented by the IETF NomCom in an executive session. Ted Hardie will send out an e-vote to confirm the IESG slate once the seven-day review period has ended.


