
Minutes of the 2020-08-12 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observers:


* None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-07-15 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-07-15)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done/OBE:


* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings and Jared Mauch to find out whether people would be willing to provide content for a possible plenary topic on the heroic efforts to keep Internet services up during COVID-19; if so, they will take the proposal to the Plenary Planning Program. (OBE; see COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.)
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on prioritization. (OBE)
* 2020-06-17: IAB to discuss on the mailing list whether the lessons learned from Let’s Encrypt can be applied to other arenas (e.g. identity management).
* 2020-07-01: Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch to interview the RZERC candidates (Cindy Morgan to schedule interviews).
* 2020-07-15: Tommy Pauly to work with Cindy Morgan to set up a [mailing list](https://www.iab.org/mailman/listinfo/edm) for the proposed EDM Program.
* 2020-07-15: Jari Arkko to update the [call for papers for the proposed COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/ietf-announce/gNoxKPXKKoX6oIULcW9AaotMgZQ/).
* 2020-07-15: Wes Hardaker to update the text for the proposed Centralization Analysis Program (CAP).


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-06-03: Stephen Farrell and Colin Perkins to schedule a tech chat on contact tracing apps and permissionless innovation. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-08-26 meeting.)
* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-9-23 meeting.)
* 2020-07-15: Jari Arkko to follow up with Mat Ford and Andrei Robachevsky regarding the EU Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation.


##### New:


* 2020-08-12: Jari Arkko to write a blog post on the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop.
* 2020-08-12: Cindy Morgan and Tommy Pauly to get the EDM Program pages set up on the IAB website and Datatracker, and announce the Program to the architecture-discuss list.
* 2020-08-12: Jari Arkko (with Wes Hardaker) to start a re-write of draft-arkko-arch-infrastructure-centralisation and post it on Github.
* 2020-08-12: Jared Mauch to follow up with the chosen RZERC candidate.
* 2020-08-12: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the RZERC candidates who were not chosen, then send an announcement.
* 2020-08-12: Mark Nottingham to draft a response to the appeal from Timothy McSweeney and send it to the appeals list for review.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
# Research Groups

* NWCRG chairs planning to wind-up the group in the next 12 months
* Melinda stepping down as co-chair of DINRG
* Side meetings on 6G-and-IP and FIPE (“Future Internet Protocol 
  Evolution”, a.k.a. “NewIP”) alongside IETF 108. Targeting IRTF RG 
  formation, but both lack focus and clear goals. 


# ANRP

* Nomination for 2021 awards will open in September


# ANRW

* Workshop was a success. Working on chairs for 2021 workshop.


# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements-03 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRTF chair review
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan-07 in IRSG review
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch in IRSG review
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g-05 in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-randomness-improvements in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-disaster with RFC Editor

Started processing RFC errata backlog - discussing with CFRG chairs how 
to expedite the process.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 12 August 2020
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the July 2020 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
 
IANA Plenary report for IETF-108 can be found here: 
https://www.ietf.org/about/administration/reports/
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
    
None (IETF-108 meeting notes will be available for the next IAB business 
meeting)
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report, John Levine–



```
We hope the v3 XML grammar has finally settled down.  Henrik [Levkowetz] 
made one minor change which we expect to be the last.  The release of 
cluster 238, with 45 drafts dating from as far back as 2016, 
unsurprisingly caused turnaround times for everything else to increase.  
Most of those drafts are now in or through AUTH48 so times should be 
returning to normal.

Henrik Levkowetz, Peter St Andre, Robert Sparks, and [John Levine] set 
up an informal group to review and manage updates to the XML grammar.  
It plans to meet on the 14th.

We've been talking to the RPC about ways to do tests of possible revised 
SLAs to see how well they match the actual document flow.
```

–End Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Report–


### 3. Proposed Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program


Tommy Pauly reported that the proposed Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program was discussed during the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 108, and that the mailing list already has subscribers from the IAB, IESG, Tools Team, and various other parts of the community.


The IAB agreed to formally create the Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program with Tommy Pauly as the Program Lead.


Stephen Farrell noted that the Program should make sure that they get input from across the IETF, as there are certain Areas that may work differently from others. Tommy Pauly agreed, adding that the Program should not only represent one niche approach.


Tommy Pauly will work with Cindy Morgan to get Program pages set up on the IAB website and Datatracker and announce the Program to the architecture-discuss list.


### 4. IAB Program on Centralization


The IAB discussed whether to pursue creating an IAB Program on centralization, or if the IAB should try to work on this topic in some other venue. The IAB decided not to pursue creating a centralization Program at this time. Instead, the IAB will work on a document about the impacts of centralization in the Internet architecture.


Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker will start by revamping draft-arkko-arch-infrastructure-centralisation and posting it to the IAB GitHub for review.


### 5. Potential IAB Retreat, 28-30 September


The IAB discussed whether to hold a virtual retreat in September, given that travel will not be possible due to COVID-19 restrictions. The IAB decided not to hold a virtual retreat.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that there are some topics the IAB is working on that might benefit from more time, but that sub-sets of the IAB can organize themselves to work on those between IAB teleconferences. Mirja will send an email to the IAB with more details on that proposal.


### 6. IAB Goals for Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC)


The IAB discussed whether the IAB has any general guidance to give their next appointee to the ICANN RZERC, given the current proposals regarding introducing ZONEMD at the root and on signing root-servers.net.


Alissa Cooper said that guidance to the RZERC appointee should be handled on a per-issue basis, rather than giving them generic advice.


Wes Hardaker agreed that the appointee should have a good dialogue with the IAB when issues come up.


Stephen Farrell noted that the issue about signing root-servers.net might benefit from some discussion in the DNSOP WG.


### 7. Executive Session: Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB selected Tim April to serve on the ICANN RZERC. Jared Mauch and Cindy Morgan will follow up with the candidates and send an announcement.


### 8. Executive Session: Appeal from Timothy McSweeney


Alissa Cooper and Mirja Kühlewind recused themselves from the discussion and left the teleconference.


The IAB discussed the appeal from Timothy McSweeney in an executive session. Mark Nottingham will draft a response to the appeal and send it to the IAB for review.


### 9. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-08-26 at 1330 UTC.


