
Minutes of the 2020-03-04 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Ted Hardie (IAB Chair)
* Christian Huitema
* Mirja Kühlewind (IESG Liaison, incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Erik Nordmark
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Melinda Shore
* Jeff Tantsura
* Martin Thomson
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)


##### Regrets:


* Stephen Farrell
* Cullen Jennings (incoming IAB)
* Tommy Pauly (incoming IAB)
* Brian Trammell


##### Observers:


* Ben Campbell (incoming IAB)
* Jay Daley
* Jared Mauch (incoming IAB)
* Greg Wood
* Jiankang Yao (incoming IAB)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-02-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-05)
* 2020-02-12 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-12)
* 2020-02-19 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-02-19)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB agenda for IETF 107.
* 2020-02-19: Stephen Farrell to announce the approval of the Model-T Program on the model-t list.
* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to add a page to the IAB website for the Model-T Program.
* 2020-02-19: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the candidates for the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-02-19: All to send final comments on the draft conflict of interest policy by 2020-02-21.
* 2020-02-19: Wes Hardaker to send an e-vote on the IAB conflict of interest policy on 2020-02-24.


##### In Progress:


* 2019-11-17: Jari Arkko to post a draft-iab version of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report.
* 2019-11-17: Cindy Morgan to send a message to architecture-discuss about the potential adoption of draft-arkko-arch-dedr-report (after the draft-iab version is posted).


##### New:


* 2020-03-04: Mark Nottingham to let Ted Hardie & Cindy Morgan know when draft-iab-for-the-users is ready for an e-vote to approve the document.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie/Cindy Morgan to start an e-vote to approve draft-iab-for-the-users.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to add an item on the process around adopting workshop reports on the IAB stream to the IAB’s IETF 107 agenda.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to send out a Doodle poll to find availability for an additional meeting to discuss/vote on the next IAB Chair.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie/Cindy Morgan to set up a blind voting system to use for the IAB Chair vote.
* 2020-03-04: Cindy Morgan to post the IAB conflict of interest policy on the IAB website.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to announce the IAB conflict of interest policy to the community.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to draft a response to Fernando Gont regarding the request for an architectural statement on IPv6 packet integrity and circulate it to the IAB for review.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to follow up with Fernando Gont regarding the request for an architectural statement on IPv6 packet integrity.
* 2020-03-04: Ted Hardie to send an e-vote after 2020-03-06 on the RFC Future Development Program Chairs.


### 2. draft-iab-for-the-users


Mark Nottingham reported that he uploaded a new revision of draft-iab-for-the-users that incorporates the comments received during the community review period.


Jari Arkko noted that he has a suggested change for section 4.2 of the document; he will send email with the details, and work with Mark Nottingham on how to incorporate that suggested change.


Once Mark Nottingham indicates that draft-iab-for-the-users is ready, Ted Hardie and Cindy Morgan will start an e-vote on whether to approve the document.


### 3. BOF and Proposed RG Coverage at IETF 107


The IAB discussed coverage for BOFs and Proposed Research Groups at IETF 107.


### 4. IAB Agenda at IETF 107


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 107.


Mirja Kühlewind suggested adding an item to discuss how IAB workshop reports are adopted on the IAB stream, as well as ways to get workshop reports out faster.


Ted Hardie noted that there were some concerns about holding the IAB Chair vote on Sunday at IETF 107, given the number of people who are likely to be participating remotely. He suggested handling the vote prior to IETF 107, with the decision being minuted at IETF 107. Ted will work with Cindy Morgan to set up a blind voting system to use for the Chair vote. Cindy will also send out a Doodle poll to find an additional time to discuss the vote in case there is not enough time during the IAB teleconference on 2020-03-11.


### 5. IAB Conflict of Interest Policy


The IAB approved a conflict of interest policy via e-vote. Cindy Morgan will post the policy on the IAB website and Ted Hardie will send an announcement to the community.


### 6. Request for an Architectural Statement on IPv6 Packet Integrity


The IAB discussed a request from Fernando Gont for the IAB to make an architectural statement on IPv6 packet integrity. Given the differing interpretations of RFC 8200, the ongoing discussions in the SPRING and 6MAN Working Groups, and the likelihood that the IAB will eventually be asked to review an appeal over draft-ietf-spring-srv6-network-programming, the IAB decided not to make a statement at this time. Ted Hardie will draft a response to Fernando and circulate it among the IAB for review before sending.


### 7. Executive Session: RFC Future Development Program Chairs


The IAB discussed potential chairs for the RFC Future Development Program in an executive session. Ted Hardie will send out an e-vote once the feedback period ends on 2020-03-06.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-03-11.


