
Minutes of the 2020-10-21 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Stephen Farrell
* Jared Mauch
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observers


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that Webex details for the pre- and post-IETF 109 meetings with the IESG were sent out by email and added to the calendar.


Alissa Cooper asked to add an item to the agenda to discuss the RFC XML and Style Guide change management team.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-10-07 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-10-07)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2020-10-14 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-10-07)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the IRTF Chair appointment.
* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to subscribe Jay Daley to the IAB mailing list.
* 2020-10-14: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB Open meeting chairs.
* 2020-10-14: Wes Hardaker to follow up with the DNSOP WG chairs with advice on when and how to liaise with ICANN regarding private use TLD name space considerations.
* 2020-10-07: Cindy Morgan to draft text for a call for feedback on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2020-10-07: Mirja Kühlewind and Jari Arkko to draft text for refactoring administrative IAB programs.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing.
* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web.”
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.


##### New:


* 2020-10-21: Wes Hardaker to ask Stephen Farrell to give an update on the Model-T Program during the IAB Open meeting at IETF 109.
* 2020-10-21: All IAB to review the revised proposal for IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups and provide any new feedback on the IAB list.
* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings to ask the RSOC Chair to forward the message about the RFC XML and Style Guide change management team to the IETF list and point people to the discussion on rfc-interest.
* 2020-10-21: Cullen Jennings and Mark Nottingham to ask the RSOC Chair for a monthly report out of RSOC.
* 2020-10-21: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.


### 2. IAB Open Meeting


The IAB discussed the draft agenda for the IAB Open meeting at IETF 109. Jari Arkko will give an update on the COVID-19 Network Impacts Workshop and Tommy Pauly will give an update on the Evolvability, Deployability & Maintainability (EDM) Program. Wes Hardaker will ask Stephen Farrell to give an update on the Internet Threat Model (model-t) Program.


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 109


The IAB briefly discussed BOF coverage for IETF 109, but did not make any assignments yet, as the final agenda will not be published until 2020-10-23.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that at the BOF Coordination meeting with the IESG, both BOFs were tentatively approved pending revised proposals with narrowed scopes. The IESG will revisit the BOF proposals at their informal meeting on 2020-10-29.


### 4. Refactoring IAB Programs


The IAB reviewed a proposal to split out the administrative IAB Programs into something called Administrative Support Groups.


Administrative Support Groups would be groups with dedicated membership, most similar to directorates, that act as an arm of the IAB, assisting the IAB in discharging its responsibilities. Administrative Support Groups would have a dedicated membership with at least one IAB member to act as the chair or a liaison. Membership would be determined by the IAB and periodically reviewed.


Colin Perkins asked whether non-IAB members would have term limits, or whether they would just be periodically reviewed. Mirja Kühlewind replied that the idea is that there would be term limits, but noted that different models might work for different groups.


Jari Arkko said that the IAB had previously said that they did not want to make changes to RSOC’s membership while the RFC Editor Future Development Program work is in progress, and suggested that that should be explicitly noted in the text describing Administrative Support Groups.


Jari Arkko suggested clarifying the text about the expectations about confidentiality in Administrative Support Groups in order to trend more towards openness.


Mirja Kühlewind asked the entire IAB to review the revised proposal for IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups and provide any new feedback on the IAB list. The goal is to send this out to the architecture-discuss list for comments before IETF 109.


### 5. RFC XML and Style Guide Change Management Team


Alissa Cooper noted that the [announcement about the RFC XML and Style Guide Change Management Team](https://www.rfc-editor.org/pipermail/rfc-interest/2020-October/011484.html) went out to the RFC-interest list but not the IETF list, and wondered whether all of the interested parties would have seen the message on RFC-interest.


Cullen Jennings will ask the RSOC Chair to forward the message about the RFC XML and Style Guide change management team to the IETF list and point people to the discussion on rfc-interest.


The IAB noted that it would be useful to get more frequent reporting from RSOC, even if the report just notes that there is nothing to report. Cullen Jennings and Mark Nottingham will ask the RSOC Chair to provide a monthly report to the IAB.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-11-04 at 2130 UTC.


