
Minutes of the 2020-07-01 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Mark Nottingham


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-06-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-06-10)


The following meeting minute remain under review:


* 2020-06-17 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-06-17)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-06-10: Tommy Pauly to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on deployability.
* 2020-06-10: Stephen Farrell, Jari Arkko, Ben Campbell, and Wes Hardaker to write a proposal for what a workshop on COVID-19’s impact on the Internet might look like (i.e. virtual vs in-person, timing).
* 2020-06-17: Jari Arkko to ask Ted Hardie for an update on the ICANN Governance Working Group (GWG).
* 2020-06-17: Cindy Morgan to send an announcement about the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair appointment.
* 2020-06-17: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the incumbent regarding the CCG appointment.


##### Updated:


* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings and Jared Mauch to find out whether people would be willing to provide content for a possible plenary topic on the heroic efforts to keep Internet services up during COVID-19; if so, they will take the proposal to the Plenary Planning Program.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-06-01: Stephen Farrell (with Colin Perkins and Mirja Kühlewind) to revise the proposal about refactoring IAB Programs based on the retreat discussion.
* 2020-06-03: Stephen Farrell and Colin Perkins to schedule a tech chat on contact tracing apps and permissionless innovation. (Note: Check back in on this at the 2020-08-26 meeting.)
* 2020-06-05: Tommy Pauly to find a speaker and schedule a tech chat on safe browsing.
* 2020-06-10: Wes Hardaker to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on centralization.
* 2020-06-10: Cullen Jennings to write a proposal for a potential IAB program on prioritization.
* 2020-06-17: IAB to discuss on the mailing list whether the lessons learned from Let’s Encrypt can be applied to other arenas (e.g. identity management).
* 2020-06-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Tommy Pauly to draft an agenda for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 108.


##### New:


* 2020-07-01: Tommy Pauly to update the draft description for the Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program and send it out to the architecture-discuss list for comments.
* 2020-07-01: Jari Arkko to draft a call for papers for an IAB workshop on COVID-19’s impact on the Internet. (TPC to include Jari, Stephen Farrell, Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins.)
* 2020-07-01: All IAB to sign up for IETF 108 BOF Coverage.
* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar with IAB meetings around IETF 108, and re-send the link to the calendar to the IAB list.
* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the RZERC appointment.
* 2020-07-01: Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch to interview the RZERC candidates (Cindy Morgan to schedule interviews).
* 2020-07-01: Cindy Morgan to follow up regarding the ICANN NomCom appointment.


### 2. Proposed Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program


The IAB discussed the draft description for an IAB Program on Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability. Tommy Pauly will update the Program description based on the feedback received and send it out to the architecture-discuss list for comments. The IAB will discuss the Program further at their meeting on 2020-07-15.


### 3. COVID-19 impact workshop


The IAB discussed a potential workshop about COVID-19’s impact on the Internet. Jari Arkko suggested a short (two half- or quarter-days) virtual workshop sometime in October or November.


The IAB agreed that this was worth pursuing. Jari Arkko, Stephen Farrell, Cullen Jennings, and Colin Perkins agreed to be on the initial technical program committee. Jari will draft a call for papers and send it to the IAB for review before the next IAB meeting on 2020-07-15.


### 4. BOF Coverage for IETF 108


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to sign up for BOF coverage at IETF 108.


### 5. IAB Agenda Around IETF 108


Noting that it would be challenging to schedule an additional teleconference during the IETF 108 Online meeting, the IAB agreed to add a reserved IAB meeting to their calendar on 2020-07-22. The IAB will also have joint meetings with the IESG on 2020-07-24 and 2020-08-05.


Colin Perkins asked the IAB if there was a particular Research Group that they would like to review at a teleconference after IETF 108; a couple of people expressed interest in the quantum crypto work going on in CFRG.


Karen O’Donoghue asked if the IAB had any interest in a briefing from ISOC on their project around encryption advocacy. Wes Hardaker said that he thought that might be an interesting topic for a future IAB Open meeting. Cullen Jennings noted that it would be good for the IAB to be briefed before the topic is presented at an IAB Open meeting. Karen O’Donoghue will try to schedule a briefing for the IAB after IETF 108, with a view towards having the topic presented during the IAB Open meeting at IETF 109.


### 6. ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) Appointment


The call for nominations for the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) closed on 2020-06-30. Cindy Morgan will send out a call for feedback on the candidates.


Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch will interview the RZERC candidates. Cindy Morgan will send out a Doodle poll to schedule the interviews.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN Nominating Committee Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB voted to reappoint Peter Koch to the ICANN Nominating Committee for 2021. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Peter and the ICANN Nominating Committee Operations Team.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2020-07-15 at 1330 UTC.


