
Minutes of the 2020-04-29 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell


##### Observer:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item on the ETSI Non-IP Group was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-04-08 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-04-08)
* 2020-04-15 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-04-15)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2020-04-15: Cindy Morgan to send the call for nominations for the RFC Editor Future Development Program chair.
* 2020-04-15: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Board Liaison.
* 2020-04-15: Tommy Pauly to update the proposed SAA policy for IAB lists and send it out to architecture-discuss.
* 2020-04-15: Tommy Pauly to reach out to Eliot Lear regarding moderation of the rfc-futures list.
* 2020-04-15: Jared Mauch to send a note to the lists the IAB proposes closing, saying that unless there is an objection, those lists will be closed in 7 days, and future discussion can be taken to architecture-discuss.
* 2020-04-15: Mirja Kühlewind to draft a SWOT/PEST analysis questionnaire for the IAB.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-04-01: All to try to widen the pool of chair candidates for the RFC Editor Future Development Program.


##### New:


* 2020-04-29: Tommy Pauly to update the proposed SAA policy for IAB lists based on the discussion on architecture-discuss, and send it to the IAB for review.
* 2020-04-29: Mirja Kühlewind and Tommy Pauly to update the description for the architecture-discuss list.
* 2020-04-29: All to fill out the IAB SWOT/PEST survey.
* 2020-04-29: Cindy Morgan to block out time on the IAB calendar during the first week of June for virtual retreat meetings.
* 2020-04-29: Stephen Farrell to ask the IETF Trust if there are any changes being considered that would affect the CCG.


### 2. IAB Mailing Lists


Jared Mauch sent email to the following lists to let them know that the IAB intends to close them in 7 days, and that future discussion can be taken to the architecture-discuss list:


* caris-attendees@iab.org
* emserv-discuss@iab.org
* i18n-discuss@iab.org
* inip-discuss@iab.org
* internetgovtech@iab.org
* iotsi@iab.org
* iotsu@iab.org
* marnew@iab.org
* privsec-discuss@iab.org
* stackevo-discuss@iab.org


Tommy Pauly reported that there was some feedback on the architecture-discuss list about the proposed IAB sergeant-at-arms policy. He suggested updating the text to add clarifications around what the role will be and to ensure there is a clear policy to point to if moderation is ever needed. Tommy will update the text and send it out to the IAB for review.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the description for the architecture-discuss list should be updated to clarify that it is an IAB list. Mirja will work with Tommy Pauly on an updated list description.


### 3. IAB Virtual Retreat Planning


Mirja Kühlewind reported that she has only received a few responses to the SWOT/PEST survey, and asked everyone to respond to it before the next IAB meeting.


Alissa Cooper said that the IAB should block out time when the IAB will be expected to be on calls during the week of 2020-06-01.


Mirja Kühlewind replied that she is hoping to have one or two sync-up meetings with the full IAB during that week, with smaller groups breaking out and scheduling their own calls to work on the topics that come out of the SWOT/PEST analysis. The IAB agreed to block out 1330 UTC and 2130 UTC on 2020-06-01, 2020-06-03, and 2020-06-05 and decide later which of those slots will be used. Cindy Morgan will update the IAB calendar.


### 4. ETSI Non-IP Group


Alissa Cooper asked whether the IAB wanted to engage further on the ETSI Non-IP Group. The IAB agreed that there was no reason to engage at this time, but Alissa Cooper will continue to monitor the group’s activities.


### 5. Community Coordination Group (CCG) Appointment


Stephen Farrell reported that the incumbent is willing to stand again for the Community Coordination Group (CCG) appointment.


Alissa Cooper suggested that the IAB check with the IETF Trust to see if the Trust is considering any changes that would affect the CCG. Stephen Farrell will follow up with the Trust and report back to the IAB.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2020-05-13 at 1330 UTC.


