
Minutes of the 2021-03-03 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (incoming IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* David Schinazi
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (incoming IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Observers:


* Warren Kumari
* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Martin Vigoureux will be the new IESG Liaison to the IAB.


Cindy Morgan noted that since this meeting is being considered the IAB meeting at IETF 110, all of the incoming IAB members are now full IAB members.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-02-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-03)
* 2021-02-17 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-17)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-02-24 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-24)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee.
* 2021-02-17: Mark Nottingham to send a message to the Liaison Oversight Program letting them know that the current Program will be closed.
* 2021-02-17: Mirja Kühlewind to send a message to the community about the closure of the Liaison Oversight Program and the next steps for the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function moving forward.
* 2021-02-17: RSOC to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract and SLA and make a recommendation about extending it to the IAB.
* 2021-02-17: Mirja Kühlewind to send the ISOC Board of Trustees slate to the IETF Chair so that the IESG can confirm the slate.
* 2021-02-17: All IAB to continue discussing the proposal about liaison shepherding on the list.
* 2021-01-13: Wes Hardaker with help from other IAB members to add characteristics of readable RFCs to <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/RFC_Readability>.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.


##### New:


* 2021-03-02: Jari Arkko to update the text describing the IAB-IANA Group and send it to the IAB.


### 2. IAB Chair Selection


The IAB selected Mirja Kühlewind as the IAB Chair for 2021-2022.


### 3. IANA Program Followup


The IAB discussed the updated description and membership for the IAB-IANA Group.


Lars Eggert noted that the text “Organizations that the group advices may choose to send their chairs or other suitable people to be members of the group” is ambiguous about what organizations are meant, and how many people each organization can send.


Jari Arkko replied that the text was meant to convey that the IAB, IESG, and LLC Boards could each send their respective chairs plus one addition person per group to act as a liaison.


The IAB approved the updated description and membership for the IAB-IANA Group, pending edits to the text to be provided by Jari Arkko.


### 4. Program Leads/Liaisons


The IAB reviewed their current Program Leads and Liaisons.


* Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program
	+ Tommy Pauly and David Schinazi will act as IAB Leads.
* IAB-IANA Program
	+ Jari Arkko will act as IAB Liaison.
* Internet Threat Model (model-t) Program
	+ Jari Arkko and Russ White will act as IAB Leads.
* Plenary Planning Program (Dormant)
	+ Wes Hardaker will act as IAB Lead.
* RFC Editor Future Development Program
	+ Wes Hardaker and Jared Mauch will act as IAB Liaisons.
* RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC):
	+ Cullen Jennings and David Schinazi will act as the IAB members on RSOC.


### 5. IAB Liaison to the IESG


Ben Campbell volunteered to act as the IAB Liaison to the IESG.


The IAB agreed to add an “IESG News We Can Use” section to future business meeting agendas.


### 6. IAB Liaison to the NomCom


Deborah Brungard volunteered to act as the IAB Liaison to the 2021-2022 NomCom.


### 7. IAB Stream Manager


Mirja Kühlewind will continue to act as the IAB Stream Manager.


### 8. IAB Sergeants-at-arms


Tommy Pauly and Jiankang Yao will act as sergeants-at-arms for the architecture-discuss list.


### 9. Comms Review Team


Mirja Kühlewind, Zhenbin Li, and Colin Perkins will serve on the Comms Review Team.


### 10. ARPA Change Control Approver


Wes Hardaker will continue to act as the ARPA Change Control Approver.


### 11. IAB Conflict of Interest Disclosures


Cindy Morgan asked the IAB to be on the lookout for an email from her asking everyone to submit their conflict of interest disclosures.


Wes Hardaker suggested that the email asking for CoI disclosures also ask people to review their current bios on the IAB website and see if any updates are needed.


### 12. Liaison Coordinators


As part of the IAB’s review of its liaison management function, the IAB created a new mailing alias, <liaison-coordination@iab.org>. This alias can be used to reach the IAB’s liaison coordinators.


This position replaces the liaison shepherd structure that the IAB had established to handle its oversight role of the liaison manager system. This change should not impact the work of the liaison managers at this point, except that there is now a clear contact point for them as well as for the community regarding any liaison-related requests towards the IAB. The IAB hopes that this change will also help in the future to improve coordination and communication between the liaison managers and the IAB.


Several IAB members volunteered to serve as liaison coordinators. Since they would all bring different sets of expertise to the role, the IAB agreed to have the <liaison-coordination@iab.org> alias point to the entire IAB mailing list temporarily while the IAB refines the desired expertise for the liaison coordinator role.


