
Minutes of the 2021-05-05 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets


* Ben Campbell
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)


##### Observers:


* Warren Kumari
* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Mirja Kühlewind reported that she plans to request a one-hour session for the IAB Open meeting at IETF 111.


Jared Mauch agreed to co-chair the IAB Open meeting at IETF 111 with Mirja Kühlewind.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-04-14 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-04-14)
* 2021-04-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-04-21)


#### 1.4 Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-04-21: Cullen Jennings to draft some slides about living documents for discussion at the IAB/IESG online retreat.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Tommy Pauly (with Christoph Paasch and Stuart Cheshire) to update the proposal for an IAB workshop on user-consumable network quality and send it to the IAB for further refinement.
* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-27: Wes Hardaker, Tommy Pauly, and Mirja Kühlewind to meet and discuss the liaison coordinator next steps.
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-04-29: Karen O’Donoghue to arrange a discussion between the IAB and the ISOC team working on moderation issues.


##### New:


* 2021-05-05: Cullen Jennings to reach out to Warren Kumari and Rob Wilton on living documents and report back to the IAB.
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-covid19-workshop to the RFC Editor for publication (pending a new revision or RFC Editor Note to be provided by the authors).
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers out for community review with a cc to the DNSOP WG.
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to find out the current state of draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.


### 2. draft-iab-covid19-workshop


The IAB approved draft-iab-covid19-workshop as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream, pending either a new revision or an RFC Editor note to be provided by the authors. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC editor once the authors confirm that it is ready to be sent.


### 3. draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers out for community review with a CC to the DNSOP Working Group. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 4. Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability (EDM) Program Review


Tommy Pauley updated the IAB on the current progress of the EDM Program.


The EDM Program focuses on how to practically encourage best practices within the IETF to ensure that the IETF’s standards process considers protocol evolution, deployability, and long-term maintainability.


Since the group was initially formed in July 2020, it has held three interim meetings. The September 2020 meeting had 20 participants, the December 2020 meeting had 15 participants, and the April 2021 meeting had 7 participants. Tommy Pauley noted that the drop-off in participation for the most recent meeting might be because the meeting was held shortly after it was announced, or because the meeting was held during a timezone that was inconvenient for people in Europe.


The program’s current efforts include:


* Documenting evolvability
	+ Revive and publish draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it
	+ Identify further work needed on greasing/coordination/extension strategy
* Promoting deployability
	+ Tools for interoperability/conformance testing


Planned future work includes focused discussions on:


* Coordination of feature deployments
* Extension and version timeframe/cadence
* Tooling for in-development specs and deployments


Jared Mauch asked if the program is specifically focused on end-to-end solutions. Tommy Pauley replied that the latest version of draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it currently has mostly end-to-end examples, but that they are hoping to incorporate insights from non-end-to-end examples.


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether attendance at the most recent interim meeting was lower because the open membership model of the program makes people feel less committed.


David Schinazi asked whether that was a real concern, since a lot of work was accomplished at the most recent interim meeting.


Tommy Pauley added that while attendance was lower, the people who did show up were committed to work on the items on the agenda. He suggested that having task assignments might be more helpful than having a dedicated membership.


Colin Perkins said that as long as the program is kept visible through things like the IAB Open meeting, that he does not see a problem.


Jared Mauch noted that systems are being built that are less tolerant, and wondered whether that is a good thing, from an architectural perspective.


Mirja Kühlewind replied that there is an expired IAB-stream draft (draft-iab-protocol-maintenance) that explores this.


Cindy Morgan took an action item to find out the current state of draft-iab-protocol-maintenance and report back to the IAB.


