
Minutes of the 2021-06-02 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell


##### Guests:


* Stuart Cheshire
* Evgeny Khorov
* Omer Shapira
* Dave Taht


##### Observers:


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-05-12 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-05-12)
* 2021-05-19 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-05-19)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-05-26 business meeting & technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-05-26)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind to send a note to the community naming Wes Hardaker and Tommy Pauly as the IAB Liaison Coordinators.
* 2021-05-26: Cindy Morgan to follow up on the ICANN RZERC appointment.
* 2021-05-26: Mirja Kühlewind to send an email to the IETF Executive Director and RSOC about the RSOC recommendation on the RPC Contract, and ask for a clarification about the process.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Tommy Pauly (with Christoph Paasch and Stuart Cheshire) to update the proposal for an IAB workshop on user-consumable network quality and send it to the IAB for further refinement.
* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-04-29: Karen O’Donoghue to arrange a discussion between the IAB and the ISOC team working on moderation issues.
* 2021-05-05: Cullen Jennings to reach out to Warren Kumari and Rob Wilton on living documents and report back to the IAB.
* 2021-05-18: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Stuart Cheshire about setting up a web page for the Network Quality Workshop. (Page should be live by 2021-06-09.)
* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins to continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on IETF participation trends.
* 2021-05-18: Ben Campbell (with Tommy Pauly and Wes Hardaker) to draft an IAB Statement on inclusive language.
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko to send mail to the arch-discuss list on the work ongoing in the ICANN root server system.
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko to bring the tech trends topic from retreat to an IAB meeting in June.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.


##### New:


* (None)


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-00  

IAB State: Community Review (until 2021-06-03)
* draft-iab-covid19-workshop-03  

IAB State: Sent to the RFC Editor  

RFC Editor State: RFC-EDITOR
* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-00 (expired)
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-04 (expired)


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


• Serialising Extended Data About Times and Events (SEDATE)  

State: External Review


### 2. IAB Workshop on Network Quality


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to hold the workshop on Measuring Network Quality for End-Users on September 14, 15, and 16 from 1400-1800 UTC.


Stuart Cheshire reported that they have a tentative list of people for the workshop program committee, and are awaiting responses. Omer Shapira, Evgeny Khorov, and Wes Hardaker agreed to co-chair the workshop.


Jari Akko, Cullen Jennings, and Tommy Pauly volunteered to join the program committee.


The team will continue to refine the call for papers, with the goal of having it published on the IAB website on Monday, 2021-06-07.


### 3. EMO Directorate Update


Karen O’Donoghue updated the IAB on the IETF Education, Mentoring & Outreach Directorate (EMODir)’s activities.


EMODir strives to enhance the productivity of IETF work, expand the diversity and inclusiveness of the IETF, and enable the IETF to facilitate technical development and innovation in the Internet.


EMODir was originally established to help keep various activities related to education, mentoring and outreach coordinated. Activities are organized by audience:


* IETF Newcomers
	+ Newcomers Overview presentation webinar/Q&A session
	+ IETF Guide program (light weight mentoring)  
	
	Newcomer Networking activities (Quick connections, breakfasts, dinner, etc)
* IETF Participants
	+ Technical tutorials, IETF tools and processes, etc.
* IETF Leadership
	+ Process/procedure training, WG chair onboarding
	+ Leadership skills training
	+ WG Chairs forum


Ongoing activities include planning for IETF 111, WG Chair training development, a user journey project, and EMODir documentation.


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether increasing the diversity of the IETF is in EMODir’s scope. Karen O’Donogue replied that it is something that EMODir is thinking about, but it is not something they can do on their own.


### 4. ICANN Governance Working Group Document


This item was deferred to the 2021-06-09 meeting agenda due to time constraints.


### 5. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2021-06-09 at 1400 UTC.


