
Minutes of the 2021-08-25 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Guests:


* Bron Gondwana, SEDATE WG Chair
* Mark McFadden, SEDATE WG Chair
* Francesca Palombini, Applications and Real-Time Area Director


##### Regrets:


* Cullen Jennings


##### Observers:


* Warren Kumari
* Daniel Migault


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes remain under review:


* 2021-08-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-08-18)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins to continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on IETF participation trends.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker to send mail to the arch-discuss list at the appropriate time on the work ongoing in the ICANN root server system (once the work stabilizes).
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to see if he can find someone to speak to the IAB about data privacy and the role of data (AI efforts).
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule reviews of ICNRG and PANRG.
* 2021-07-14: Jari Arkko to set up an outline for a document on consolidation and discovery that the IAB will live-edit at a future technical discussion session.


##### New:


* 2021-08-25: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to begin the process to set up a formal liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to post the call for papers for the Workshop on Analyzing IETF Data (AID) to the IAB list, and send the CFP to IETF-Announce, IRTF-Announce, and architecture-discuss lists.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to coordinate with Greg Wood to advertise the AID workshop on social media and other relevant lists.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to set up aid-workshop-pc@iab.org mailing list.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it out for community review.
* 2021-08-25: Jari Arkko to reach out to Ted Hardie regarding the ICANN RSS GWG.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN NomCom appointment (IAB to have 24 hours to review text first).


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


* MAC Address Device Identification for Network and Application Services (madinas)  

Internal Review (approved for external review pending edits from  

AD on 2021-08-16)
* Media Type Maintenance (mediaman)  

Approved pending edits from the AD (2021-07-15)
* Oblivious HTTP (ohttp)  

Internal Review  

IESG Telechat: 2021-08-26


### 2. Setting up a new IETF liaison to ISO/TC 154


Francesca Palombini, Bron Gondwana, and Mark McFadden joined the IAB to discuss setting up a new liaison relationship between the IETF and ISO/TC 154.


The SEDATE WG charter says that “The working group will coordinate with ECMA International TC39 and ISO/TC 154 to ensure that this work remains a strict extension of ISO 8601 and its various parts rather than becoming a conflicting standard.”


Mirja Kühlewind noted that generally, direct collaboration is preferred over formal liaisons.


Bron Gondwana replied that since ISO is a membership forum, there are concerns about IETF reviewers being able to get access to the ISO specifications.


Francesca Palombini noted that liaison statements had previously been exchanged between ISO/TC 154 and the IETF over ISO 14533 and work in the LAMPS WG, so coordination between the IETF and ISO/TC 154 seems to be an ongoing concern. She added that the IETF could have benefited from a liaison with ISO/TC 154 when it was working on RFC 3339.


Jiankang Yao said that even if IETF reviewers are given access to ISO documents, a formal liaison relationship will still be needed in order for the IETF to actively participate in the discussions at ISO/TC 154.


The IAB agreed to pursue a liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154. Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators will begin the process to set up a formal liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154.


### 3. Workshop on Analyzing IETF Data (AID)


The IAB approved the call for papers for the Workshop on Analyzing IETF Data (AID). Cindy Morgan will post the call for papers to the IAB website and send it out to the IETF-Announce, IRTF-Announce, and architecture-discuss lists. Once Greg Wood returns from vacation, Cindy will coordinate with him to get the call for papers posted on social media.


### 4. draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-02


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-02 out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 5. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance


Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker updated the IAB on the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group in an executive session. Jari Arkko will follow up with Ted Hardie.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB discussed the IETF appointment to the ICANN NomCom in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send a draft call for feedback to the IAB before sending the feedback message to the community.


### 7. Executive Session: ISO/TC 46 Liaison Manager Role


Discussion of the ISO/TC 46 liaison manager role was deferred to email.


