
Minutes of the 2021-10-20 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* David Schinazi


##### Observers:


* Chris Box
* Warren Kumari
* Mark McFadden
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Mirja Kühlewind asked to discuss the time for the IAB meeting once Daylight/Summer time ends in the Northern Hemisphere. The IAB will take this discussion over email.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 2021-10-06 business meeting – (posted 2021-10-06)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-10-06: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it to the RFC Editor for publication once the final pull request is merged into the document.
* 2021-09-22: Cindy Morgan to document the current membership of the iab@iab.org mailing list on the IAB website. (See https://www.iab.org/about/iab-members/)
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to see if he can find someone to speak to the IAB about data privacy and the role of data (AI efforts).
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule review of ICNRG.
* 2021-08-25: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to set up a formal liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2021-10-06: IAB and ISOC to coordinate via email to set up a group to agree on some high-level guidelines about how ISOC can talk about IETF at WTSA.


##### New:


* 2021-10-20: Cindy Morgan to start a thread on the IAB list about the IAB meeting time after DST ends.
* 2021-10-20: Cindy Morgan to send email to the community about the ISE Search.
* 2021-10-20: Mirja Kühlewind to send email to the LLC about the ISE Search Committee.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor  

RFC Editor State: AUTH48
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-04  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor  

RFC Editor State: EDIT


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


* System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM)  

(Re-opening a closed WG)  

IESG state: External Review, on IESG Telechat 2021-10-21


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 06 October 2021
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the August 2021 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
IANA will be kicking off our Annual Engagement Survey soon.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
MEETING MINUTES – BEGIN
 
Summary of Meeting Minutes
Thursday, August 26, 2021
Virtual meeting Post IETF-111
06:30 UTC
 
Attendees:
Mirja Kühlewind, IAB Chair
Lars Eggert, IETF Chair
Russ Housley, IETF-IANA Group Co-Lead
Jari Arkko, IETF-IANA Group
Harald Alvestrand, IETF liaison to ICANN Board
Jay Daley, IETF LLC Executive Director
Kim Davies, VP, IANA Services, ICANN, President, Public Technical Identifiers (PTI)
Amy Creamer, Director of Operations
Michelle Cotton, Protocol Parameters Engagement Sr. Manager, IETF-IANA 
  Group Co-Lead
Amanda Baber, IANA Operations Manager
Sabrina Tanamal, Lead IANA Services Specialist
 
Slides presented by Sabrina Tanamal. 
 
1. Introductions and Welcome
 
Welcome to Amy Creamer, our new Director of Operations.  This is her 
first IETF-IANA Group meeting since joining the IANA team.
 
2.  Review of Action Items from previous meetings
 
Action Item: 2019-01

Reach out to Glenn and give updates if there's any pushback re "IANA" 
usage

Status: M. Cotton will start discussions after licensing topic is 
finished with Jay and the Trust

3. IANA Services Activity/Performance

Four months of between-meeting cumulative stats are in plenary report:

https://www.ietf.org/about/administration/reports/

No impact to IANA service levels due to COVID-19. IANA staff are working 
remotely and requests are being processed as normal.

4. Update on Supplemental Agreement Deliverables

2022 Supplemental Agreement process will start in September.  Anticipate 
no major changes.

Michelle Cotton will send email in September to kick off that progress.

Fiscal Year 2023 (FY23) Operating Plan and Budget Activities

Discussion:

R. Housley: Did anyone raise any concerns on the webinars?

K. Davies: There were no actionable comments or questions.

5. Update on Operational Activities

Customer Service Feedback

HDWD Post Ticket Surveys (March 2020-June 2021):

Satisfaction Rate: Between 100% 

Response Rate: Between 44%-66.7%

Positive comments included.

No negative feedback received during this period.

Discussion:  

L. Eggert: The IETF also gets positive feedback that we don’t see.

.ARPA Management

The document (draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-01) has been approved 
and we are currently working on the implementation and communication 
plans.

Discussion:

K. Davies: Next step is to sit down with Verisign about exact details.  
As we are currently in a Holiday/vacation season it’s hard to get the 
necessary parties.

Expect this to happen in the coming weeks.  Zone md also needs to be 
discussed.

.INT Document

(draft-davies-int-historic-00)

Discussion:

K. Davies: Warren and Kim have been discussing this document via email.  
Next step is to raise awareness.

There is no natural home for this discussion so we’ll need to identify 
working groups where we can get some reviews.

H. Alvestrand: Is there a timeline and a name for the new draft?

K. Davies: draft-davies-int-historic-00

J. Arkko: Sent comments today

K. Davies: Thank you.  I have not seen them yet but will look at them 
and respond.

Quality Assurance Review Process

We have revised the questions we use for our QA review to better 
evaluate important steps of the processes we follow.  We have started 
brainstorming ideas on what tooling we might need and how it would 
interact with current systems.

Licensing for IANA Protocol Parameter registries

Discussion:

M. Cotton: We are in the final stage.  Final review and approval is 
pending. 

R. Housley: Can we add this as an action time to get to the finish line?

M. Cotton: What should the exact action item be? To finalized the 
statement and post.

K. Davies: We’re for a meeting to minute the decision.  Now that August 
vacations are done, we’ll be able to do this.

6. Other Topics for Discussion

Registry Workflow System

Background: 

Develop and deploy a platform tailored to managing the content of 
protocol parameter registries

Supporting change requests to these registries

Feature development prioritized based on customer feedback as well as 
IANA internal “pain points” in performing registry administration

Current status

The plan remains to have a replacement system to process PENs as the 
first phase and hope to launch end of 2021

Early stages of planning subsequent releases

Continue roadmap plans for 2021 led by the Technical Director

J. Daley: Is there a timetable of when this should be completed by?

K. Davies: Currently this is high level planning. Our plan is to have 
Opal complete by 2024.  The strategic plan runs through 2024, part of 
that includes turning down legacy systems.  This will depend on what 
development resources we have at hand.  We have a small team, our 
developers get pulled into different projects.

If we need to we will request additional resources from ICANN.

We will provide incremental updates.  Similar to the datatracker, we’ll 
release incremental improvements.

L. Eggert: Are you developing this from scratch?  

K. Davies: We are developing a custom system, similar to the 
datatracker.

ICANN uses Salesforce, but we don’t want to use it as we don’t want a 
third party dependency.

L. Eggert: If we did this today, we probably would not do it from 
scratch

Not sure what is lacking from what is available commercially.

K. Davies: We had the choice of something custom or Salesforce

Largely driven by data modeling for the IANA registries, workflow stuff 
comes later

How do we model all the registries we manage, capture the information in 
a cohesive relational database.

J. Daley: Will this all be open source?

K. Davies: We have not yet crossed that bridge, nothing proprietary that 
I’m aware of, we can further discuss.

TZ Database

Active debate on the TZ Database list regarding deduplicating time zones

Significant pushbacks by many key members against the nature of the 
change

M. Kucherawy is working with the parties to see if it can be resolved. 
May require updates to RFC 6557.
 
K. Davies: Clearly a dispute.  In 10 years that Paul has coordinated, 
first time that Paul has reached out to me.

They had a call, trying to work through the issues.  Appeal came a week 
later. Paul is aware of the sensitivity.

J. Daley: Suggestion that we don’t call it a Deduplication.  

K. Davies: This was just a term we used for the slides, IANA takes no 
position on this.

IETF-111 Office Hours

Increased engagement through attending more working group meetings

More discussions about I-Ds due to early reviews of documents appearing 
on WG agendas

IETF Participants also stop to say hello and check-in on staff

Planning Interim Office Hours in Gather between IETF 111 and IETF 112.

M.Cotton: The request for a more virtual presence came out of our Annual 
Customer Service Satisfaction survey.  

This was an idea to help address that suggestion.  It will be more of an 
experiment to see if it is beneficial. 

R. Housley: Will you provide the hours in different timezones?

M. Cotton: Yes, we will have different shifts to cover the most 
timezones possible.

M. Kühlewind:  Where did the early reviews come from? 

S. Tanamal: We reviewed the meeting agendas prior and sent mail about 
documents with IANA Considerations that had issues.

R. Housley: IANA is doing a great job.

7.  Upcoming Meeting schedule

Next meeting will be virtual post IETF-112.

Summary of New Action items:

#2021-03

Token: M. Cotton

Action Item: Finalize licensing statement and post.

MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
2021-10-16 ICANN report

This report covers the state of ICANN as seen from the liaison as per 
Oct 16, 2021.

The previous report was dated August 11.

DSFI-TSG report

An item that should attract strong interest is the publication of the 
report from the DNS Security Facilitation - Technical Study Group (DSFI-
TSG).

This is a report from a team of independent security experts under the 
leadership of Merike Kaeo that has worked on painting a holistic picture 
of the threadt landscape, vulnerabilities and mitigation measures that 
exist in the DNS ecosystem.

Its formation was triggered by several high profile attacks on the DNS - 
including DNSpionage, SeaTurtle and others - that made it clearly 
visible that more work on hardening the whole DNS ecosystem (not just 
the DNS protocol!) was needed.

The report is 56 pages, and is well worth reading.

More info, including the report itself, can be found on 
https://community.icann.org/display/DSFI

SubPro ODP officially launched

With the Board approval of the budget and plan for the Subsequent Round 
Procedures Operational Design Phase, we are now in a new phase of the 
process towards getting another round of gTLD delegations started. This 
phase is devoted to figuring out exactly what is needed in order to 
implement the policy decision to start the next round, and laying the 
groundwork so that the process can be efficiently and effectively 
executed once the implementation phase starts.

It is clear that the time before the next round open is still measured 
in years, but giving an estimate of how many is still not recommended.

ICANN 72 is virtual, no decision on ICANN 73

The fall meeting, starting Oct 25, 2021, is a fully virtual meeting.

The board is considering how and when the decision needs to be made on 
the form of ICANN 73 in March; the Covid landscape is still hard to make 
predictions on, but somehow a final decision must be made one way or the 
other by December, in order to allow sufficient time for planning the 
meeting.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 20 October 2021.

# Research Groups

Reviewing potential candidates for HRPC co-chair. IAB review of PANRG 
review took place on 22 September. Review of ICNRG is being scheduled 
for December. 

# ANRP

Call for nominations for ANRP 2022 has opened, with nominations due on 
19 November. 

# ANRW

Steering committee membership has been updated. Planning for the 2022 
workshop has started.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 IRSG poll done; update needed
draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-21 in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g in IRSG review
draft-irtf-panrg-questions pending IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-qirg-principles-07 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-06 in IRSG review


# Other Activities

IRSG has started monthly calls to progress documents and manage IRTF 
work, with support from the secretariat. 

IRSG adopted policy on inclusive language in IRTF RFCs, matching that of 
the other streams.

The Security Standardisation Research conference [http://ssresearch.eu/) 
is considering co-locating with a future IRTF/IETF meeting.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.4. Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation Report


–Begin MSP on ICT Standardisation Report, Mat Ford & Andrei Robachevsky–



```
European standardisation strategy
https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/
initiatives/13099-Standardisation-strategy_en

Feedback from stakeholder consultation indicated that Regulation 
1025/2012 (the "constitution of the MSP") works generally well, 
education, information and awareness remain the main focus areas, and in 
geopolitical sense China is seen as a threat, both in terms of market 
access and standardisation approaches. Governance should strive for more 
inclusiveness and transparency.

Geopolitical challenges
Bi- and multilateral alliances

- EU-US Trade and Technology Council (TTC) Inaugural Joint Statement

https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_21_4951

"We intend to cooperate on the development and deployment of new 
technologies in ways that reinforce our shared democratic values, 
including respect for universal human rights, advance our respective 
efforts to address the climate change crisis, and encourage compatible 
standards and regulations."

A Working Group 1 - Technology Standards, established under the TTC is 
tasked to develop approaches for coordination and cooperation in 
critical and emerging technology standards including AI and other 
emerging technologies.

- Quad countries

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/
joint-statement-from-quad-leaders/

"We have established cooperation on critical and emerging technologies, 
to ensure the way in which technology is designed, developed, governed, 
and used is shaped by our shared values and respect for universal human 
rights.[...] With respect to the development of technical standards, we 
will establish sector-specific contact groups to promote an open, 
inclusive, private-sector-led, multi-stakeholder, and consensus-based 
approach. We will also coordinate and cooperate in multilateral 
standardization organizations such as the International 
Telecommunication Union."

The MSP Geopolitical Challenges Ad-hoc Group (GCAG)

GCAG's recommendations regarding geopolitical challenges in 
standardisation (draft shared with the IAB before) were finalized by the 
MSP and will serve as input to the EU standardisation strategy.

Identification procedure

Currently on hold (for 2 years). Initial concerns were of a legal nature 
related to the so-called "James Elliott Construction case"

(https://europeanlawblog.eu/2016/03/01/opening-the-ecjs-door-to-
harmonised-european-standards-opinion-of-the-ag-in-c-61314-james-
elliott-construction-2/). 

There are a few things that hold the decision. First, the EU 
standardisation strategy that is about to be finalized.  The EC are 
discussing how to address public procurement as part of the 
standardisation strategy, whether this is a component and how to 
implement this in the future.  Another milestone is the renewal of the 
MSP itself. The EC communication on this is expected before the end of 
this year. Finally, the identification procedure needs an overhaul as 
well, to accommodate updates to the recognised standards and to adopt a 
more agile approach in general.

Rolling Plan 2022

Contributions to the Rolling Plan on ICT Standardisation for 2022 were 
submitted prior to the deadline and are captured on the IAB wiki 
(https://trac.ietf.org/trac/iab/wiki/Multi-Stake-Holder-Platform). 
Updates were made to reflect the changes to the structure of the RP2022 
document and to include mention of asdf, iotops and madinas WGs in the 
relevant sections.

Hope to come back after November MSP meeting with more information.
```

–End MSP on ICT Standardisation Report, Mat Ford & Andrei Robachevsky–


#### 2.5. RFC Editor Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
The ad-hoc XML review committee convened by the RSOC is finally wrapping 
up.  Now the [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] will turn to 
updating RFC 7991 and addressing the question of whether to revise the 
XML in published RFCs to match the final v3 vocabulary.

There is also an ongoing question about what to do about SVG.  The 
current profile is abandonware, is poorly supported by tools, and fails 
to capture a few desirable features, such as text strings being strings 
rather than individually placed characters.  There is no obvious 
candidate for a better profile, so rather than enumerating XML elements, 
we may try describing the goals like legibility at a wide range of 
sizes, accessible text, and decent tool support.

The [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] also spent some time helping 
the RPC update the DOI scripts to work with python 3.6 on their new 
virtual machines (since he wrote them originally five years ago) and is 
also providing them with some scripts to help work out some edge cases 
in prepared vs. unprepped XML files.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


#### 2.6. RSSAC Liaison Report


–Begin RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–



```
ALL RSOs 

Future agenda:
* ICANN meeting: Oct 25 - Oct 28. 
* Liaison IAB/RSSAC: I have a meeting with RSSAC co-chair Fred Baker on 
October 8. If you have any specific comments, please feel free to let me 
know.


RSO consultation:

Statements to define / compare models and define which model can be seen 
as a successful model from the RSOs point of view. The document is going 
to be reviewed by RSSAC.
```

–End RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–


### 3. BOF Coverage for IETF 112


Jari Arkko, Ben Campbell, Wes Hardaker, Cullen Jennings, and Tommy Pauly agreed to cover the Privacy Respecting Incorporation of Values (PRIV) BOF at IETF 112.


System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) is likely to be re-opened as a Working Group before IETF 112 begins, replacing the SCIM Industry Next Steps (SINS) BOF.


### 4. Giving Feedback to the IESG on charters for new WGs


In RFC 2850, the IAB is charged with providing input on new work:


IAB members pay special attention to emerging activities in the IETF and to “Birds of a Feather” sessions at IETF meetings. The IAB assists the IESG in evaluating such activities and in determining whether an IETF or an IRTF group is more appropriate. When a new IETF working group is proposed, the IESG will forward a preliminary version of the charter to the IAB for review of architectural consistency and integrity. The IAB shall review these proposed charters and give feedback to the IESG as appropriate.


The IAB currently participates in BOF Coordination calls with the IESG prior to each IETF meeting, and notes new WG chartering efforts on IAB agendas, but Tommy Pauly asked whether the IAB is providing feedback to the IESG consistently. If no one from the IAB comments on a proposed charter during internal review, it is difficult to know whether that is because nobody had any comments, or if no one read the charter.


Tommy Pauly suggested that the IAB run charter reviews like a directorate, with the IAB maintaining a list of items to look for during the review. IAB members would be assigned charters to review on a rotating basis and provide short written feedback to the IESG. The goal is to make sure that someone from the IAB is actually reviewing the new work proposals.


The IAB agreed that this is a good idea. When a charter proposal is sent to the IAB for review, the Secretariat will assign an IAB reviewer and send email about that to the IAB list.


### 5. Outreach and IETF Day Proposal


Zhenbin Li updated the IAB on recent work on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts to extend the reach of the IETF.


The bigger IETF community includes:


* Direct Community (RFC Producers)
	+ Those who join the IETF mailing lists
	+ Those who write RFCs and drafts
	+ Those who join IETF discussion
* • Indirect Community (RFC Consumers)
	+ Those who read RFCs
	+ Those who apply RFCs into the products and operations
	+ Those who follow RFCs
	+ Those who might be future IETFers


There are several different kinds of potential outreach:


* Inclusion outreach: collecting feedback from people not well- represented by the IETF
* Internal outreach: education activities focused on the direct IETF community
* Evangelization/Education outreach: something like an Internet Standards Day to help raise the visibility of the IETF and the importance of standards
* Coordination outreach: coordinating work with other SDOs


Zhenbin Li, Deborah Brungard, Jiankang Yao, and Alvaro Retana will continue to have several side meetings with key parties in the IETF to determine the possible work items, and then let those parties carry out the work plan.


### 6. IAB Website Survey Results


This item was deferred to a future IAB business meeting.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be a Technical Discussion on draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration on 2021-10-27 at 1400 UTC.


### 8. ISE Appointment


The appointment of the Independent Submissions Editor was discussed in an executive session.


