
Minutes of the 2021-08-11 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Michelle Cotton
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Tommy Pauly
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Guests:


* Robert Sparks
* Jenny Bui
* Jasmine Magallanes


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* John Levine
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* David Schinazi


##### Observers:


* Chris Box
* Warren Kumari
* Mark McFadden
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-07-14 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-07-14)
* 2021-07-21 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-07-21)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2021-07-14: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers to the RFC Editor for publication.
* 2021-07-14: Cindy Morgan to post and announce the IAB Statement on Inclusive Language in IAB-Stream Documents.
* 2021-07-14: Cindy Morgan to follow up on the ICANN RZERC appointment.
* 2021-07-14: Cindy Morgan to send email to the l3boundaries, ename, and ename-workshop lists announcing that they will be closed (and then close the lists).


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to see if he can find someone to speak to the IAB about data privacy and the role of data (AI efforts).
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule reviews of ICNRG and PANRG.
* 2021-07-14: Jari Arkko to set up an outline for a document on consolidation and discovery that the IAB will live-edit at a future technical discussion session.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins to continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on IETF participation trends.
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker to send mail to the arch-discuss list at the appropriate time on the work ongoing in the ICANN root server system (once the work stabilizes).


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-00  

IAB State: I-D Exists


Mirja Kühlewind removed this document from this list, noting that the work should come from the program, and that it may need community approval.


* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


* MAC Address Device Identification for Network and Application  

Services (madinas)  

Internal Review  

IESG Telechat: 2021-08-12
* Media Type Maintenance (mediaman)  

Approved pending edits from the AD (2021-07-15)
* Oblivious HTTP (ohttp)  

Internal Review  

IESG Telechat: none


### 2. Monthly Reports (Liaisons)


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 11 August 2021.

# Research Groups

Many research groups met during the recent IETF 111 meeting.

There were side meetings at IETF 111 on "Future Internet Protocol Evolution" and "Evolving and
Revitalising the Internet" that claimed to target the IRTF, and presented work on a wide range
of topics relating to routing, addressing, and programmable forwarding, with some security and
DTN work too. These organisers of these side meetings have been given previous guidance that
they would do well to take the parts of this work that overlap with existing IRTF and IETF groups
to those groups, and if they want to propose new IRTF work, to suggest a charter that focusses
on an open research question rather than on trying to promote the technology preferences of a
particular vendor, and to work to build a community of researchers who are willing to engage in
IRTF. That guidance was re-iterated.

There was also a side meeting on satellite networking, with a focus on transport issues primarily
but also with some interest in routing. This was more productive. The conclusion was that there
is interest in the topics, but also a lot of prior work. It seems that it would be useful to organise
a tutorial/deep dive as a side meeting at IETF 112, to help understand what is known about this
topic, what open problems exist, and what topics are being addressed by other organisations.
That will help decide whether it makes sense to charter new work as an IRTF RG, whether to
propose a BoF for an IETF WG in the style of PILC or TCPSAT, or whether the work should
continue in existing venues with an informal group coordinating IETF-related activities in side
meetings.

# ANRP

ANRP award talks for IETF 111 were given by Rüdiger Birkner and Sadjad Fouladi.

# ANRW

Successful ANRW held during IETF 111. Materials are available on the website. Scheduling the
workshop during IETF week is challenging, but continues to be important to encourage
collaboration between researcher and standards communities.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-panrg-what-not-to-do -> RFC 9049
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch -> RFC 9064
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 -> AUTH48
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g in IRSG review
draft-irtf-qirg-principles-07 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-06 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-18 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements in IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke pending IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-panrg-questions pending IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 IRSG poll done; update needed

--End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins--
```

#### 2.2. ICANN Liaison Report


–Begin ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–



```
2021-08-11 ICANN report

This report covers the state of ICANN as seen from the liaison as per Aug 11, 2021.
The previous report was dated June 12.

Reviews: The SSR2 report has been processed
The board in its July 22 meeting processed the recommendations of the second Security, 
Stability and Resiliency review (SSR2). The resolution adopts a lot of the recommendations, but, 
unusually, rejects a whole series of recommendations.
The reasons given are various, but in many cases, the stated opinion of the board is that the 
SSR2 went too far in trying to micromanage how things should be done - the recommendations 
were either impractical, impossible to perform, or interfered with the responsibilities of other 
groups or offices. Some basically sensible recommendations were also rejected because they 
were formulated in a way that made them depend on other recommendations that had been 
rejected for other reasons.

The community reaction to these rejections remains to be seen.
Security: SSAC, TSG reports
Two bodies are delivering advice to the board on DNS security this month: The SSAC has sent a 
lengthy document to the board that states some of its worries about the DNS system and how 
its security and stability can be managed, and the DNS Security Facilitation Initiative Technical 
Study Group (DSFI-TSG) is working hard to finalize its report to the ICANN president.
These documents are not made public, but will form the basis of further work in ICANN and in 
the ICANN board on how to deal with DNS security and stability.

New gTLD round - SubPro
The Operational Design Phase is getting ready to start, but not yet approved by the board.

These were the top-of-mind things this month.
```

–End ICANN Liaison Report, Harald Alvestrand–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report - 11 August 2021
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the June 2021 monthly statistics report, 
exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal times.  These times include the steps 
that ICANN has control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or 
other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
 
Work with the IETF trust on licensing language for protocol parameter registries is close to 
being completed.
 
The Fiscal Year 2023 (FY23) Operating Plan and Budget for PTI is currently being drafted and will 
be ready in September 2021 for public comment.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
None to report.  Next meeting scheduled for 26 August 2021.
 
MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
An ad-hoc committee convened by the RSOC is still working through the changes to the XML V3 
vocabulary since RFC 7991 and making steady progress.  Barring surprises, that review will be 
done this month and we can turn to updating RFC 7991 and addressing the question of whether 
to revise the XML in published RFCs to match the final v3 vocabulary.

We were reminded that the RFC series is not indexed in Google Scholar, an issue first noted in 
2011.  The problem appears to be a combination of poorly chosen metadata, not using the 
industry standard keywords that Scholar expects, and possibly a lack of site indexes to make the 
files easy to find.  Some experiments will help.

Regards,
John Levine, john.levine@standcore.com
Standcore LLC
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


#### 2.5 RSOC Report


–Begin RSOC Report, Peter Saint-Andre–



```
Dear IAB,

With respect to RSOC initiatives, the RFC XML and Style Guide change
management team recently completed its review of all open issues with
the v3 XML format. The team is now bringing the more significant of
those issues to the rfc-interest list for open discussion so that the
community can reach consensus in preparation for updating the relevant
documentation (online style guide, schema documentation, instructions
for authors, etc.).

Peter

(on behalf of the RSOC)
```

–End RSOC Report, Peter Saint-Andre–


### 3. Liaison Management Tool


Robert Sparks, Warren Kumari, Jenny Bui, and Jasmine Magallanes joined the discussion on the Liaison Management Tool. Tommy Pauly updated the IAB on the way the IETF Datatracker Liaison Tool works.


Warren Kumari mentioned the current process may need changing to make sure outgoing liaisons were approved by the appropriate party.


Cullen Jennings noted that in the past, area directors and working group chairs needed to know what to do with liaisons, and not all understood the process.


Mirja Kühlewind said the process should be supported by the tools, and clarification to the process should include an approval step so a wider group of people are aware of the liaisons before they are sent to other SDOs.


Robert Sparks said he would work on the tooling once the IAB had a clear idea of what process  

they wanted.


There was a short discussion about having an IAB Liaison to the Tools Team. Mirja Kühlewind said they would discuss the topic on the IAB email list because a liaison to the Tools Team would be useful to the IAB.


### 4. Model-T Program Review


Jari Arkko updated the IAB on the status of the Model-T Program since it was formed. He spoke of the documents the Program has produced and the discussions surrounding them. That Program was created to discuss issues of threats and security issues, but that types of attacks had changed. The Program had three types of documents; general observations about the types of attacks and issues; principles of the program; and specific suggestions to the IETF.


Jari mentioned that it was not lack of interest that stalled the Program, but lack of timely meetings. He also noted that framing the Program around an update to RFC 3552 may have been premature, as members of the community have indicated there is more research needed.


Cullen Jennings mentioned that the Program may be better as a community effort than an IAB effort.


Jari agreed that splitting the work up between the community and the IAB may be a better solution than closing the Program completely. The work for the RFC 5332 update would be better from the community.


Mirja Kühlewind questioned whether the Program should continue, or if the IAB should write documents on the work the IAB was interested in and let the community discuss the other parts of the work.


Colin Perkins added that a lot of the items the Program has been considering seem like IETF Community work.


Russ White agreed, but questioned how to get it started in the IETF.


Mirja mentioned if the goal was to bring the work to the IETF, the IAB can keep the mailing list as a place to discuss ways forward, but not treat it as a Program.


Cullen asked if there was work that could be published with some editing.


Jari responded that the principles document [draft-arkko-farrel-arch-internet-threat-model-guidance] could be finished.


The IAB will continue to discuss the possible closure of the Model-T Program.


### 5. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB decided there was no meeting needed on August 19, the next IAB Business meeting will be August 25.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB discussed the topic in an executive session.


