
Minutes of the 2021-11-17 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* David Schinazi
* Russ White


##### Observers:


* Olaf Kolkman
* Warren Kumari
* Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that the post-IETF 112 wrap-up meeting with the IESG will be on 2021-11-18 at 0730 PST.


Lars Eggert asked to add an executive session to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 2021-10-20 business meeting – (posted 2021-10-20)
* 2021-10-27 business meeting – (posted 2021-10-27)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule review of ICNRG. (Scheduled for 2022-01-19)
* 2021-10-20: Mirja Kühlewind to send email to the LLC about the ISE Search Committee.
* 2021-10-27: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar to reflect the meeting time as 0700 Pacific.
* 2021-10-27: Cindy Morgan to send the call for nominations for the ISOC BOT on 2021-11-01.
* 2021-10-27: Cindy Morgan to add Greg Wood and Robert Sparks to the IAB mailing list and Slack channel.
* 2021-10-27: Cindy Morgan to add Colin Perkins and Lars Eggert to the ISE Search Committee mailing list.
* 2021-10-27: Cindy Morgan to send notice to architecture-discuss and panrg lists that the IAB is considering adoption of draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-08-25: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to set up a formal liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2021-10-06: IAB and ISOC to coordinate via email to set up a group to agree on some high-level guidelines about how ISOC can talk about IETF at WTSA.
* 2021-10-27: Cullen Jennings to talk to David Schinazi about the ISE job description.


##### New:


* 2021-11-17: Cullen Jennings to prepare slides for a discussion on finding candidates For IAB-appointed positions.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-11-17: Cindy Morgan to follow up and announce the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/


* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-04  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor  

RFC Editor State: RFC-EDITOR


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


(No new initial charters)


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
# Research Groups

Reviewing potential candidates for HRPC and GAIA co-chair. IAB review of 
ICNRG is scheduled for 19 January 2022.

# ANRP

Award talks by Thomas Wirtgen, Aqsa Kashaf, and Kevin Bock at IETF 112. 
The nominations for ANRP 2022 are open, with a deadline of 19 November 
(33 nominations submitted to date).

# ANRW

Planning for the 2022 workshop has started.

# Documents and Errata

With RFC Editor:
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan 
* draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements
* draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke

In IESG Conflict Review:
* draft-irtf-panrg-questions

In IRSG Poll:
* draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2
* draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 (update needed)

In IRSG Review:
* draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-06
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 (update needed)
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-07 (update needed)

Awaiting IRSG Review:
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g
* draft-irtf-qirg-principles-07

Awaiting IRTF Chair:
* draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-13
* draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion-09
* draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-10 (update needed)

# Other Activities

Several side meetings at IETF 112 potentially targeting IRTF work 
(Internet Addressing, Service Routing and Addressing, Contractual 
Networking). Considerable overlap with existing RGs and potential 
standards work. May need broader discussion with IESG to understand 
relation to IETF.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.2. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 17 November 2021
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the September and October 
  2021 monthly statistics reports, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of 
  processing goal times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has 
  control over and not time it is waiting on requesters, document 
  authors or other experts.  Monthly reports can be found at: 
  https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
- The draft 2022 Annual Supplemental Agreement is currently under 
  review.
 
Other News:
 
Annual Engagement Survey is open until 24 November 2021.  Please 
participate if you have not done so already.  
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
IETF-IANA Group Meeting was held 16 November 2021.  Meeting minutes will 
be available at a future IAB Business meeting.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
The ad-hoc XML review committee convened by the RSOC is finally wrapping 
up. The [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] has resumed updating RFC 
7991, which is a lengthy and tedious task.  The changes are not large, 
but getting the details right in a 150 page document takes a while.

He also looked some more at SVG, and believes that it would be better to 
describe the SVG by requirements than by vocabulary, e.g., static images 
in black and white.  We have found that you can create some pretty bad 
SVG that strictly complies with the current profile, and some things are 
hard to describe in a vocabulary, e.g., it's OK to have a multi-color 
palette so long as the image only uses black and white.  Accessibility 
is also an issue -- if SVG describes an equation, how to make it 
available to screen readers.

For the ever-intriguing question of whether and how to revise the XML in 
published RFCs to match the final v3 vocabulary, we've done some 
experiments mechanically updating the unprepped XML to be sure we 
understand how the final XML will change.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


### 3. Adoption of draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration as an Informational document on the IAB Stream.


### 4. Review of draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter


This document updates the IAB Charter (RFC 2850) to be consistent with the new model for the RFC Editor (draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model). Since the IAB Charter is an IETF Stream BCP, draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter will be progressed as an AD-sponsored document in the IETF Stream.


Mirja Kühlewind asked the IAB to review draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter and confirm that they agree with it. She would like to include an IAB Note in the document that states that the IAB agrees with and approves of this update.


Cullen Jennings said that he is fine with the change, but that the document should not progress until the work on the RFC Editor Model is done, so that the updated IAB charter does not refer to a draft instead of an RFC. The IAB agreed, noting that draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter and draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model should normatively reference each other and be published at the same time.


The IAB and IESG will coordinate to send draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model (IAB Stream) and draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter (IETF Stream) out for Community Review/Last Call at the same time. During the Last Call, the IAB will make a statement that endorses the changes to the IAB charter in draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the RFC Editor Future Development Program is still working through the Program Last Call comments on draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model, and that they have an interim meeting planned for 2021-12-02.


### 5. IAB Website survey results


The IAB went through the results of their internal survey about the IAB Website.


*Question 1: Who do you think the audience for the IAB website should be?*


* General public
* The IETF/IRTF community
* Other SDOs
* Journalists/media


There was not consensus in the survey results as to the order in which  

those audiences should be prioritized.


*Question 2: Do you think the current IAB website is serving that audience?*


* General public: No
* The IETF/IRTF community: Yes, for those who know what the IAB does and how to search for the relevant information. For less-involved people, probably not.


*Question 3: What should be the first thing that people see on the IAB website?*


* Not a wall of text
* What is the IAB, and what is it doing
* The front page should be focussed. There’s way too much content on the current page, so it’s hard to follow
* “About the IAB,” as not everyone knows who we are


*Question 4: Should the IAB website be more in line with the IETF website in terms of its visual design?*


* Don’t care about visual design similarities, but taking some cues about presentation and highlighting important information would be useful
* Don’t care
* It wouldn’t be bad for them to be similar, but it wouldn’t be bad if they were separate either
* In general, the IAB page could probably use a bit of freshening.


*Question 5: Should the IAB website use more pointers to the Datatracker instead of maintaining separate static pages (e.g. remove the individual Program pages on iab.org and replace them with links to their Datatracker equivalents)?*


* Yes, but not as the top priority
* Yes, with the caveat that this may make it harder to present explanatory information to the user first.
* This might reduce overall workload, but risks making the IAB site even less accessible to non-IETF experts. Automatically extracting some information from the tracker (e.g., Program descriptions) to populate the IAB site and then links to the tracker for details might work


Mirja Kühlewind said that she would like to modernize the IAB Website to make it look nicer, and remove some of the historical content to make the site easier to navigate.


Tommy Pauly said that having a home page that makes it more obvious that IAB teleconferences are open to observers would be helpful.


Cullen Jennings said that SEO should be a bigger concern than the website’s look and feel; it is the content that matters.


The IAB briefly discussed whether it would make sense to move the site from WordPress to Wagtail, since the ietf.org site is in Wagtail.


Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan will put together some options for an IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.


### 6. Followup from IAB Open Meeting at IETF 112


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the topic of bringing new work into the IETF was raised both during the IAB open mic at the plenary, and during her interview with NomCom. She asked to add a topic on this to the agenda of a future IAB meeting.


### 7. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB agreed unanimously to reappoint Petr Špaček to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB teleconference will be on 2021-12-01 at 0700 PST.


### 9. Executive Session


A legal matter was discussed in an executive session.


