
Minutes of the 2021-01-06 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)


##### Observers:


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Several new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2020-12-16 business meeting – (draft submitted 2020-12-16)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2020-12-16: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-dedr-report to the RFC Editor for publication as an RFC.
* 2020-12-16: Cindy Morgan to start an e-vote to confirm the IESG slate.


##### Removed:


* 2020-08-27: Cullen Jennings to write a blog post promoting the paper “[Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/letsencrypt-ccs19.pdf).”


##### In Progress:


* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.


##### New:


* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.
* 2021-01-06: Mirja Kühlewind to start a discussion on the IAB list about active involvement in discussions that relate to broader Internet changes and IAB support for new work.
* 2021-01-06: Wes Hardaker to reply to Ben Kaduk’s email about the DANE for IoT onboarding BoF proposal.
* 2021-01-06: Wes Hardaker to schedule a call with the IAB and the DANE for IoT onboarding BoF proponents.
* 2021-01-06: Cullen Jennings to start an email thread with Alissa Cooper, Mark Nottingham, and Martin Thomson about the W3C and the completion of the WebRTC spec.
* 2021-01-06: Stephen Farrell, Ben Campbell, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, and Jared Mauch to interview the ISOC BOT candidates.
* 2021-01-06: Cindy Morgan to schedule the ISOC BOT interviews.


### 2. Virtual and Asynchronous Work


The IAB discussed how to work successfully using virtual and asynchronous methods.


Stephen Farrell noted that the format used for the COVID-19 Networks Impact Workshop (three two-hour sessions spread out over a week) seemed to work well.


Tommy Pauly said that it would be nice to have more time to work on architectural issues, rather than administrative issues. He added that Programs allow some opportunity for that, but those discussions can be overly formal, and he would like to see some more opportunities for brainstorming.


Jared Mauch said that the challenge is identifying the architectural topics that the IAB is interested in engaging on; somebody needs to drive the work.


Wes Hardaker suggested that the reserved IAB meeting slots that don’t become IAB business meetings could be used for more informal breakout and brainstorming sessions. Mirja Kühlewind replied that with the current geographic distribution of the IAB, it is unlikely that people in more inconvenienced time zones would participate in those informal discussions.


Mark Nottingham said that the IAB should make it as easy as possible for people to begin new work. Jari Arkko agreed, adding that the IAB should also try to make it easy to complete work once it has begun.


Mirja Kühlewind said that perhaps the best way to get work done is to remind everyone that they need to drive the topics they are interested in, and not rely on other people to do the work.


### 3. Retreat Leftovers


The IAB reviewed topics left over from their June 2020 retreat that might benefit from more discussion:


1. Brainstorm on ways to hold virtual meetings/workshops effectively
2. How to encourage effective asynchronous work
3. DDoS/attack protection
4. Active involvement in discussions that relate to broader Internet changes
5. IAB program to support new work (from RG to WG, or from system level to building block)?
6. Protocol maintenance: How to support implementors after a WG was closed? How to make it easier to find RFCs?


For items 1 and 2, Wes Hardaker noted that he has applied for a grant to stand up some services for asynchronous work; if that comes through, he will ask IAB members to help test those.


For item 3, Jared Mauch agreed to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection sometime after April 2021.


For items 4 and 5, Mirja Kühlewind agreed to start a discussion on the IAB list about active involvement in discussions that relate to broader Internet changes and IAB support for new work.


For item 6, this relates to work in the Evolvability, Deployability, & Maintainability Program.


### 4. DANE for Client Identity and Certificate Discovery BoF Proposal


Ben Kaduk sent an email to the IAB asking whether anyone was following the discussion about a DANE for Client Identity and Certificate Discovery BoF proposal that is happening on the iot-onboarding@ietf.org list. Wes Hardaker agreed to review the thread and reply to Ben’s email.


Wes Hardaker will schedule a call with the IAB and the DANE for IoT onboarding BoF proponents.


### 5. Complex Inter-Spec Dependencies


Mirja Kühlewind asked if there were any volunteers to organize a side meeting about the issues that led to the complex inter-spec dependencies in Cluster 238, and whether there is a role for the IAB there. The IAB agreed to discuss this further at a meeting on 2021-01-13.


Alissa Cooper asked if there is something in particular from the W3C that is driving their deadline for the release of the WebRTC spec. Cullen Jennings said that he would start a separate email thread with Alissa Cooper, Mark Nottingham, and Martin Thomson about that.


### 6. IESG Slate Confirmation


The IAB confirmed the IESG slate that was presented by the 2021 NomCom.


Jari Arkko recused himself from the discussion and consideration of the ART Area Director and the TSV Area Director.


Mirja Kühlewind recused herself from the discussion and consideration of the ART Area Director and the TSV Area Director.


### 7. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Stephen Farrell, Ben Campbell, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, and Jared Mauch volunteered to interview the ISOC BOT candidates. Cindy Morgan will schedule the interviews.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2021-01-13 at 2130 UTC.


