
Minutes of the 2021-04-07 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard


##### Observers:


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Mirja Kühlewind noted that she sent email last week about setting up one-on-one meetings with pairs of IAB members so that people can get to know each other better.


The IAB agreed to add a topic to a future IAB agenda about who should be subscribed to the IAB mailing list.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-03-24 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-03-24)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-03-31 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-03-31)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-03-24: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-covid19-workshop out for community review.
* 2021-03-24: Lars Eggert to start a conversation with the IESG about converging on a single common chat tool to be used by the IAB and IESG.
* 2021-03-24: Cullen Jennings to let RSOC know that the IAB endorses their recommendation on extending the Temporary RFC Series Manager contract.
* 2021-03-24: Mirja Kühlewind to follow up with Jay Daley about extending the Temporary RFC Series Manager contract.
* 2021-03-24: Cullen Jennings to look into moving the IAB over to a paid Slack instance.
* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.


##### Updated:


* 2021-04-07: Tommy Pauly (with Christoph Paasch and Stuart Cheshire) to update the proposal for an IAB workshop on user-consumable network quality and send it to the IAB for further refinement.


##### New:


* 2021-04-07: Lars Eggert to ask the LLC Board if the IAB and IESG can be added to the paid IETF LLC Slack instance.
* 2021-04-07: Cindy Morgan to send a message to IETF-Announce (cc architecture-discuss) saying that the IAB will consider adoption of draft-iana-arpa-authoritative-servers at their 2021-04-21 meeting.
* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.


### 2. draft-iana-arpa-authoritative-servers


The IAB agreed to send a message to the community announcing that the IAB is considering adoption of draft-iana-arpa-authoritative-servers. Cindy Morgan will send the message to IETF-Announce with a cc to architecture-discuss.


### 3. Use of the architecture-discuss list for announcements


Mirja Kühlewind suggested automatically closing the mailing lists for IAB workshops once the workshop report is published. There were no objections to this proposal.


The IAB discussed how it currently sends announcements, and what kinds of announcements go to architecture-discuss versus IETF-Announce.


The IAB discussed whether they should set up a new list for non-technical discussion instead of using architecture-discuss, but decided not to at this time.


The IAB agreed that draft adoption emails and calls for comments on drafts should go to IETF-Announce with a copy to architecture-discuss.


The IAB agreed that announcements about new or closed programs should also go to IETF-Announce with a copy to architecture-discuss.


The IAB agreed that administrative announcements should go to IETF-Announce.


### 4. RFC Readability


Wes Hardaker collected feedback from the community about people’s favorite RFCs with respect to readability and understandability. That feedback has been collected on the IAB wiki at <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/RFC_Readability>.


Wes Hardaker, Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White will go through the RFCs that were mentioned and try to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.


### 5. Liaison Coordination Followup


Mirja Kühlewind reviewed the draft liaison coordinator job description in GitHub and asked for comments.


The IAB will continue to discuss this via email.


### 6. IAB/IESG Virtual Retreat


Mirja Kühlewind reminded the IAB to fill out the survey about the retreat and add potential topics to the wiki.


### 7. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2021-04-14 at 1400 UTC.


