
Minutes of the 2021-01-27 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (incoming IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* David Schinazi (incoming IAB)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White (incoming IAB)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Deborah Brungard (incoming IAB)
* Wes Hardaker


##### Observers:


* Alexa Morris
* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


An item to discuss a potential liaison statement to ISO/TC 154 was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-01-13 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-01-13)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-01-20 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-01-20)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-01-20: Cindy Morgan to set Zhenbin Li up as a co-chair of IABOPEN in the Datatracker.
* 2021-01-20: Jared Mauch to draft a message to the community about how to increase diversity in the candidate pools for various IAB appointments, and send it to the IAB for review.


##### In Progress:


* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.
* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.
* 2021-01-06: Stephen Farrell, Ben Campbell, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, and Jared Mauch to interview the ISOC BOT candidates.
* 2021-01-13: Wes Hardaker with help from other IAB members to add characteristics of readable RFCs to <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/RFC_Readability>. (Deadline: 2021-02-17)


##### New:


* 2021-01-27: Mirja Kühlewind to follow up with the LAMPS WG about a wording change in the liaison statement to ISO/TC 154 before sending the liaison from the IAB.
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to draft a message to the community outlining the next steps for the Liaison Oversight Program and the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function.
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee.


### 2. Liaison Statement to ISO/TC 154


The IAB received a request from the LAMPS WG that the IAB send a liaison statement to ISO/TC 154 about the incompatibility between ISO 14533-4 and OCSP with the update in RFC 8954.


The IAB agreed to send the liaison statement. Ben Campbell suggested one editorial change to the text of the liaison statement. Mirja Kühlewind will follow up with the LAMPS WG about the editorial change before sending the liaison statement to ISO/TC 154.


### 3. Liaison Oversight Program Review


The IAB reviewed the current Liaison Oversight Program.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the Program has been inactive, and that the membership list in the Datatracker is outdated. Some action needs to be taken to refresh this.


Several people noted that the current liaison shepherd and manager relationships seem to be working well, but are effectively separate from the Liaison Oversight Program.


Mirja Kühlewind suggested a number of things about the current liaison shepherd and manager relationships that could be improved upon:


* Liaison managers do not know what to report back on
* When there is not a liaison manager in place, people do not know how to engage with another SDO or send liaison statements
* Even when there is a liaison relationship in place, it is not always clear when to engage
* Some liaison statements go unanswered; it is unclear wither that is intentional or an oversight
* There are a large number of liaison relationships, and it is challenging to find IAB shepherds for all of them when the IAB’s membership changes every year
* There could be better on-boarding for new liaison managers and liaison shepherds


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether the current Liaison Oversight Program should be closed, or if it should be remodeled into something more useful. She added that closing the Program would not affect the current liaison manager relationships, which would continue. She suggested that perhaps instead of individual IAB shepherds for each liaison manager, there could be a single shepherd/coordinator in the IAB who acts as the contact point for all of the liaison managers, coordinates with liaison managers about reporting, and checks that liaison statements are appropriately handled.


Zhenbin Li summarized feedback from the current members of the IAB Liaison Oversight Program:


* Liaisons are an important responsibility for the IAB.
* There are different opinions about whether a program is needed.


Possible reasons to continue the Program include:


* Providing expertise about liaisons for the IAB
* Handling issues between IETF and other SDOs (e.g., New IP)
* Offering an overall view about cross-SDO issues
* Improving visibility for important liaison relationships
* Forming new liaison relationships with SDOs and other organizations


Possible reasons to close the Program include:


* The Program as it is currently structured has been dormant for several years
* Liaison functions are covered well by the IAB directly
* New Programs or Administrative Support Groups could be formed dynamically when it is necessary


Jiankang Yao warned that if the IAB closes the Program, people might think that the IAB does not consider the liaison function important; if the Program is to close, there needs to be a clear mechanism in place for liaison relationships to continue.


Mirja Kühlewind agreed that the IAB will need to be careful about how they communicate any changes. Mark Nottingham added that this is more about actively restructuring the IAB’s liaison oversight function than it is about closing the Program.


Zhenbin Li said that he would like to see the current Liaison Oversight Program restructured or refreshed, as it could be one possible way to improve the visibility of the IAB. He added that if the Program was to close, the IAB will need to propose an alternate way to take responsibility for overseeing the IETF’s liaison relationships. He suggested that the IAB include the IESG in future discussions about this.


Mark Nottingham took an action to draft a message to the community outlining the next steps for the Liaison Oversight Program and the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function. The IAB will continue this discussion via email and at a future meeting.


### 4. IAB Agenda around IETF 110


Since IETF 110 will be online, the IAB will use their 2021-03-03 meeting to handle the administrivia that happens during the first meeting of a new IAB term.


The IAB will discuss the selection of the IAB Chair for 2021-2022 in an executive session on 2021-02-24.


### 5. IAB Chair Selection Process


Mark Nottingham agreed to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee for 2021-2022.


