
Minutes of the 2021-02-17 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (incoming IAB)
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Lars Eggert (incoming IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* David Schinazi (incoming IAB)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White (incoming IAB)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Guests:


* Jay Daley (RSOC)
* Peter Saint-Andre (RSOC)


##### Observers:


* Warren Kumari
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


The agenda was re-ordered to discuss the Liaison Oversight Program before moving into executive session.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-02-03 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-03)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-02-10 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-03)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-02-10: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar with the new meeting time starting after IETF 110.
* 2021-02-10: Jari Arkko to send the proposed updated text for the IETF-IANA Program out to the community for review.
* 2021-02-10: Mirja Kühlewind/Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on whether to close the Liaison Oversight Program and send the message drafted by Mark Nottingham to the community.
* 2021-02-10: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments.
* 2021-01-27: Mirja Kühlewind to follow up with the LAMPS WG about a wording change in the liaison statement to ISO/TC 154 before sending the liaison from the IAB.
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to draft a message to the community outlining the next steps for the Liaison Oversight Program and the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function.
* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.
* 2021-01-13: Wes Hardaker with help from other IAB members to add characteristics of readable RFCs to https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/RFC\_Readability. (Deadline: 2021-02-17)
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee.


##### New:


* 2021-02-17: Mark Nottingham to send a message to the Liaison Oversight Program letting them know that the current Program will be closed.
* 2021-02-17: Mirja Kühlewind to send a message to the community about the closure of the Liaison Oversight Program and the next steps for the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function moving forward.
* 2021-02-17: All IAB to continue discussing the proposal about liaison shepherding on the list.
* 2021-02-17: RSOC to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract and SLA and make a recommendation about extending it to the IAB.
* 2021-02-17: Mirja Kühlewind to send the ISOC Board of Trustees slate to the IETF Chair so that the IESG can confirm the slate.


### 2. Liaison Oversight Program Next Steps


Via an e-vote, the IAB agreed to close the existing Liaison Oversight Program. Mark Nottingham will send a message to the current Program members letting them know that it will be closed. Once that is done, Mirja Kühlewind will send a message to the community about the closure of the Liaison Oversight Program and the next steps for the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function moving forward.


The IAB discussed a proposal to change the existing liaison shepherd model of having one IAB shepherd for every liaison manager to two liaison shepherds who shepherd all of the liaison managers.


Mirja Kühlewind suggested setting up an email alias so that the liaison shepherd team can be easily reached.


The IAB will continue to discuss the details of the proposal about liaison shepherding on the email list.


Wes Hardaker suggested adding a topic to the IAB Open agenda to update the community on the IAB’s plan for managing liaison relationships.


### 3. Executive Session with RSOC: Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Contract


Jay Daley and Peter Saint-Andre from the RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC) joined the IAB in an executive session to discuss the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract.


The current contract ends on 2021-06-30, but the work in the RFC Editor Future Development Program is not expected to complete before the end of 2021.


The IAB asked RSOC to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract and SLA and make a recommendation about extending it to the IAB.


### 4. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


The IAB discussed the results of the e-vote on the IETF appointment to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session. Mirja Kühlewind will send the ISOC Board of Trustees slate to the IETF Chair so that the IESG can confirm the candidates.


