
Minutes of the 2021-05-19 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)


##### Guests:


* Stuart Cheshire
* Niels ten Oever


##### Observers:


* Daniel Migault
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


The open action item for Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process was discussed during the agenda item on “WG Chartering in Progress.”


Stuart Cheshire asked to add an action item to set up a web page for the IAB Workshop on Network Quality.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-05-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-05-05)


The following meeting minutes remain under review.


* 2021-05-12 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-05-12)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2021-04-27: Wes Hardaker, Tommy Pauly, and Mirja Kühlewind to meet and discuss the liaison coordinator next steps.
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-covid19-workshop to the RFC Editor for publication (pending a new revision or RFC Editor Note to be provided by the authors).
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers out for community review with a cc to the DNSOP WG.
* 2021-05-05: Cindy Morgan to find out the current state of draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Tommy Pauly (with Christoph Paasch and Stuart Cheshire) to update the proposal for an IAB workshop on user-consumable network quality and send it to the IAB for further refinement.
* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-04-29: Karen O’Donoghue to arrange a discussion between the IAB and the ISOC team working on moderation issues.
* 2021-05-05: Cullen Jennings to reach out to Warren Kumari and Rob Wilton on living documents and report back to the IAB.


##### New:


* 2021-05-18: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Stuart Cheshire about setting up a web page for the Network Quality Workshop. (Page should be live by 2021-06-09.)
* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind to send a note to the community naming Wes Hardaker and Tommy Pauly as the IAB Liaison Coordinators.
* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins to continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on IETF participation trends.
* 2021-05-18: Ben Campbell (with Tommy Pauly and Wes Hardaker) to draft an IAB Statement on inclusive language.


### 2. Network Quality Workshop


The IAB agreed to proceed with the Network Quality Workshop. Tommy Pauly will work with Christoph Paasch and Stuart Cheshire to update the draft call for papers. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Stuart Cheshire about setting up a web page for workshop.


### 3. Workshop on participation trends


Niels ten Oever joined the IAB to discuss a potential IAB workshop on quantitative and qualitative analysis of IETF data. The workshop would explore trends that can be researched through the analysis of IETF data. This will enable engineers and researchers alike to mine the IETF’s data sources, such as the email archives, I-Ds, RFCs, and the datatracker, and provide insights into the inner workings of the process of standardization, participation, and governance.


Several IAB members were in favor of holding this workshop.


Lars Eggert asked whether the workshop was open to new people, or if it would only be targeted at people who are already working with the available IETF data.


Tommy Pauly suggested asking potential workshop participants to submit brief positions papers to show their interest before issuing invitations to the workshop.


Colin Perkins added that the call for papers can be updated to note that potential participants include people who have good questions, not only the people who are already working with the available data.


Lars Eggert noted that the call for papers should include something about ethics and privacy considerations.


Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins will continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on quantitative and qualitative analysis of IETF data.


### 4. Monthly Reports


#### 4.1. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 19 May 2021.

# Research Groups

Avri Doria stepped down as HRPC co-chair.

# ANRP

Nothing to report.

# ANRW

28 papers submitted; reviewing in progress.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-panrg-what-not-to-do sent to RFC Editor
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch sent to RFC Editor
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 ready for RFC Editor but late comments received
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g completed IRSG ballot; returned to RG
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan completed IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements in IRSG final poll
draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke in IRSG review
draft-irtf-panrg-questions in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-07 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-05 in IRTF Chair review
draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-18 in IRTF Chair review
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 4.2. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 19 May 2021

SLA Deliverables Update:

- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the April 2021 monthly
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing
goal times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over
and not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other
experts. Monthly reports can be found at:
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics

Other News:

Work with the IETF trust on licensing language for protocol parameter
registries is still in progress.

IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:

None to report.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 4.3. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
The RPC has updated the web part of the style guide to add a reference
to NISTIR 8366 to the Recommended section of the guide. We expect
authors and editors to take responsibility for using suitable language
in their documents. Should one of the RPC editors note problematic
language in a draft, the iRSE has asked them to bring it to him and we
will figure out what to do about it.

An ad-hoc committee convened by the RSOC is still working through the
changes to the XML V3 vocabulary since RFC 7991 and making slow but
perceptible progress. The knotty question of whether to go back and
change the XML in published RFCs, or do some sort of V3.1 version or
perhaps something else remains unresolved. The iRSE plans to reengage
with the community about the question of the immutability or not of the
XML and the text in published RFCs.

Our new contractor has been working on xml2rfc and fixing bugs so at
this point there are no tooling problems holding up RFC publication.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


#### 4.4. RSSAC Liaison Report


–Begin RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–



```
Paul Hoffman (OCTO) is prototyping the RSSAC047 RSSAC Advisory on
Metrics for the DNS Root Servers and the Root Server System [1].

The platform consists in 50 ish vantage points monitoring the 13 Root
Servers Operators.

The current platform has multiple timeout and the current code is
available here: https://github.com/icann/root-metrics

It seems to me this RSSAC47 and Paul’s development could be considered
as inputs for the future Network Quality IAB Workshop.

[1] https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/rssac-047-12mar20-en.pdf
```

–End RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–


#### 4.5. Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation Liaison Report


–Begin Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation Liaison Report, Mat Ford & Andrei Robachevsky–



```
MSP discussion: Geopolitical challenges to the global standardization
ecosystem

At the end of 2020 an informal reflection group was formed to discuss
some of the challenges outlined by the Commission at the 30th MSP
meeting (see, for example, https://eu.boell.org/en/2020/03/03/technical-
standardisation-china-and-future-international-order):

China as active player in standardisation with significant resources

China Standardisation strategy 2035 with focus on international
standardisation

Competition between SDOs scope / overlap

Technology is driving the standard setting and the winner will be the
one with his technology included in the standard!

Standards transpose more and more regulatory requirements, policies,
ethics, values, etc

Conformance to the WTO criteria (https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/
tbt_e/principles_standards_tbt_e.htm)

Driven by the objective to increase competitiveness of the European
standards and market (and protect them to a certain extent), it is
assumed that establishing a framework to influence international
standards setting may help to support EU values and ensure respect for
EU regulation and policies requirements, whilst reflecting state of the
art technologies.

The Terms of Reference for the group defines the following objectives
(inter alia):

Definition of the geopolitical challenges which ICT standardisation is
facing and need to be addressed at EU level

Discussion of potential actions and recommendations, in particular where
public intervention might ease the engagement of European players

We are participating in the regular meetings of the ad-hoc group and
monitoring this development. Any advice/position from the IAB we should
communicate/promote in this group is welcome.

Rolling Plan for ICT Standardisation

The Rolling Plan 2021 is published. IETF work is prominently referenced,
based on the feedback we provided: https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/
collection/rolling-plan-ict-standardisation/rolling-plan-2021

Of potential interest to the IAB are the key policy objectives and
priority areas from the EU perspective.

Identification Process

At the 28th MSP meeting (February 13, 2020) the Commission announced the
suspension of the identification process. There is no change in the
status and no further information on further steps. Partly, because the
process is driven by Member States and to break the status quo a
submission for a member is needed. This appears not to be a priority for
the Member States and the European Commission.
```

–End Multi Stakeholder Platform on ICT Standardisation Liaison Report, Mat Ford & Andrei Robachevsky–


### 5. IAB Response to IESG Statement on Inclusive Language


The IAB discussed how the IAB should respond to the [IESG Statement on Inclusive Language.](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/on-inclusive-language/)


After a brief discussion, Ben Campbell took an action item to work with Tommy Pauly and Ben Campbell to draft a brief IAB Statement saying that the IAB supports applying the principles in the IESG Statement on Inclusive Language to documents on the IAB stream.


### 6. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


Mirja Kühlewind noted that she asked for a standing item on IAB document statuses to be added to IAB business meeting agendas so that the IAB can keep track of the current state and see if any action is needed.


#### 6.1. Active IAB Documents


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-00


This document is Community Review until 2021-06-03.


* draft-iab-covid19-workshop-03


This document was sent to the RFC Editor on 2021-05-06 and is currently in the RFC Editor State “EDIT.”


#### 6.2 Expired IAB Documents


* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-00


This document is being discussed in the EDM Program and is expected to be revived soon. The draft is actively being worked on in GitHub: <https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-use-it-or-lose-it>


* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-04


Cullen Jennings reported that the editor has an update planned for this document; since the editor is no longer on the IAB, Cullen will work with him to help progress this from the IAB side. The draft is actively being worked on in GitHub: <https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-protocol-maintenance>


* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-03


Cullen Jennings reported that this document is being progressed by the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager. The draft is actively being worked on in GitHub: <https://github.com/rfc-format/draft-iab-xml2rfc-v3-bis>


### 7. WG Chartering in Progress


Tommy Pauly proposed a preliminary list of things the IAB should consider when reviewing BoF proposals and new WG charters.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that she asked for a standing item on new WG Chartering in Progress to be added to IAB business meeting agendas so that the IAB can keep track of the current state and see if any action is needed.


Tommy Pauly noted that WG charters are generally fairly short, and it might be useful to spend a few minutes looking at them during the meeting to see if there is anything in them that requires more attention from the IAB.


Cullen Jennings asked if the IAB should focus more on getting the IAB to work with the proponents of new work before it gets to the chartering stage. Several people agreed that earlier review is better.


Mirja Kühlewind replied that the goal is to make sure that new protocols are designed with things like centralization, security and privacy, and protocol evolution kept in mind.


Noting that the current IAB meeting was running over time, Mirja Kühlewind suggested that the standing item be kept on the agenda, and that the IAB continue to refine their process for providing early reviews for new work.


