
Minutes of the 2021-02-10 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard (incoming IAB)
* Ben Campbell
* Alissa Cooper (IETF Chair)
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Lars Eggert (incoming IETF Chair)
* Stephen Farrell
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Mark Nottingham
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Alvaro Retana (IESG Liaison)
* Jeff Tantsura
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)
* Wes Hardaker
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* David Schinazi (incoming IAB)
* Russ White (incoming IAB)


##### Observers:


* Daniel Migault
* Warren Kumari
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash & announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the poll to select a time for the joint meeting with the IESG after IETF 110.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-01-27 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-01-27)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-02-03 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-02-03)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### In Progress:


* 2020-10-14: IAB to review the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract / RFC Editor future development process. January 2021.
* 2021-01-06: Jared Mauch to organize a side meeting on DDoS/attack protection. Due April 2021.
* 2021-01-13: Wes Hardaker with help from other IAB members to add  

characteristics of readable RFCs to https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/RFC\_Readability. (Deadline: 2021-02-17)
* 2021-01-27: Mirja Kühlewind to follow up with the LAMPS WG about a wording change in the liaison statement to ISO/TC 154 before sending the liaison from the IAB.
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to chair the IAB Chair Selection Committee.
* 2021-01-27: Mark Nottingham to draft a message to the community outlining the next steps for the Liaison Oversight Program and the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function.
* 2021-02-03: IAB to discuss the ISOC BoT appointments via email.


##### New:


* 2021-02-10: Jari Arkko to send the proposed updated text for the IETF-IANA Program out to the community for review.
* 2021-02-10: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar with the new meeting time starting after IETF 110.
* 2021-02-10: Mirja Kühlewind/Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on whether to close the Liaison Oversight Program and send the message drafted by Mark Nottingham to the community.
* 2021-02-10: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. ISOC Liaison Report


–Begin ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–



```
ISOC Liaison Report – February 2021
 
The MANRS Ambassador program is accepting applications through 19 February. 
Ambassadors are representatives from MANRS participant organizations who 
show expertise and leadership in the routing security community. They are 
well-respected professionals committed to helping make the global routing 
infrastructure more robust and secure.

Ambassadors will work with MANRS Fellows, participants in an associated 
program that will invite applications next month. Together, they will train 
diverse communities on good routing practices, analyze routing incidents, 
research into ways to secure routing, and survey the global policy 
landscape.https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/2021/02/introducing-the-
manrs-ambassador-program-2021/
 
Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS 2021) will be held 
virtually from 21 – 25 February (www.ndss-symposium.org). The main symposium 
includes two keynotes, close to 90 peer-reviewed academic papers, and a 
poster session. There are also six co-located workshops including Automotive 
and Autonomous Vehicle Security (AutoSec), Binary Analysis Research (BAR), 
DNS Privacy (DNSPriv), Measurement Attacks and Defenses for the Web 
(MADWeb), Learning from Authoritative Security Experimental Results (LASER), 
and Innovative Secure IT Technologies against Corona-19 (CoronaDef).
```

–End ISOC Liaison Report, Karen O’Donoghue–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 10 February 2021.

# Research Groups

Seeking co-chairs for DINRG and CFRG.

# ANRP

ANRP award talks for IETF 110 will be given by Francis Y. Yan and Audrey 
Randall. Details at https://irtf.org/anrp/

# ANRW

TPC co-chairs will be Nick Feamster and Andra Lutu. Expect initial CFP 
shortly.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-nwcrg-network-coding-satellites published as RFC 8975
draft-irtf-panrg-what-not-to-do IESG conflict review completed, resolving 
 nits
draft-oran-icnrg-qosarch IESG conflict review completed, awaiting IRTF chair
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g completed IRSG ballot; returned to RG
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan completed IRSG ballot; revision needed
draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 completed IESG conflcit review; revision needed
draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke IRTF chair review 
draft-irtf-panrg-questions in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements in IRSG review
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 in IRSG review

CFRG chairs working to resolve other outstanding errata: resolution for 
erratum 5930 on RFC 8032 under discussion on list.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.3. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 10 February 2021
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
Monthly statistics information will be provided in the next liaison report.
 
The annual protocol parameters review report has been delivered to IETF 
leadership for review.
 
Other News:
 
Work with the IETF trust on licensing language for protocol parameter 
registries is still in progress.
 
The report for the IANA Engagement Survey for 2020 can be found here:
https://www.iana.org/reports/2021/customer-survey-20210125.pdf
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
    
None
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.4. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
[The Temporary RFC Series Project Manager is] continuing to work on the 
annual RPC review, summarizing the comments from the monthly author surveys, 
and collecting other material, and expect to provide the review this month.

[The RFC XML and Style Guide change management team], that is to review and 
manage updates to the XML grammar has been meeting every week and we plan to 
keep meeting weekly as we triage the changes.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


#### 2.5. RSSAC Liaison Report


–Begin RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–



```
Most of the meeting is focused on the organization of the ICANN 70 end of 
March.

The meeting is going to be virtual and the link is available here: 
https://70.schedule.icann.org/

The current RSSAC work items are:

  a. Tool to Gather A Local Perspective of the RSS Work Party Update. The 
     focus was focused on the definition of under-served areas and how to 
     measure them. 

  b. Effects and Mitigations of a Rogue RSO Work Party Update. Progress has 
     been made on the definition of what is believed by RSSAC to be rogue. 

  c. RSSAC Document on Guiding Principles is somehow issued from the rogue 
     RSO work party to provide some guiding principles. It is mostly the 
     counterpart of rogue.
```

–End RSSAC Liaison Report, Daniel Migault–


### 3. IANA Program


Jari Arkko presented a refreshed description and membership for the IANA Program. The IAB agreed that the changes look reasonable.


Lars Eggert asked if there should be some IESG representation on the Program other than the IETF Chair. The IAB agreed that adding an additional IESG representative was a good idea, and will continue to discuss the specifics offline.


Jari Arkko will send the revised Program description out to the architecture-discuss list for review.


### 4. IETF 110 BOF Coverage


The IAB briefly discussed BOF coverage for IETF 110 and will follow up once the final agenda is published.


### 5. Meeting Cadence, Length, and Time after IETF 110


After a brief discussion, the IAB agreed to keep the IAB meeting cadence and call length the same after IETF 110.


The IAB meeting time will change to 1400 UTC after IETF 110.


### 6. Confirm decision about the IAB liaison oversight program


The IAB discussed the future of the Liaison Oversight Program. Mirja Kühlewind noted that the question about whether to close the Program is independent of the work of the liaison managers and shepherds, which will continue regardless.


Mirja Kühlewind said that she strongly believes that the current Program should not remain open as it is now. Mark Nottingham agreed, but noted that there was some disagreement on the mailing list.


Mirja Kühlewind said that she though that the disagreement came from people not understanding what the Program did, and thinking that the liaison managers (which are separate) were part of the Program.


Deborah Brungard said that she was very concerned about closing the Program; if the Program was not serving the IAB’s needs, the IAB should have reached out to the Program.


Mirja Kühlewind replied that the issue is that the expertise needed changes depending on the liaison in question. The IAB has been reaching out for expertise when needed, but not to the Program.


Mark Nottingham added that the current Program membership was set at least 8 years ago, and the expertise that was needed then is not necessarily the same as the expertise that is needed today.


Tommy Pauly said that the Program as it is currently does not reflect the reality of how the liaison functions work in the IETF, and suggested that it would be better to have something that is more clear about who is active with liaisons.


Deborah Brungard said that the IAB Liaison Oversight Program should be more forward-thinking and try to help the IETF have better external relationships.


Mark Nottingham agreed that the IAB should be more proactive about its liaison relationships; closing the Program would allow the IAB to take this on directly rather than delegating it to a Program.


Since there were several people who were not on the call, the IAB will use an e-vote to decide whether to close the Liaison Oversight Program and send the message drafted by Mark Nottingham about the future of the IAB’s management of the IETF’s liaison function out to the community.


### 7. Way forward for IAB’s liaison shepherd assignments


The IAB discussed whether to move from having a separate IAB shepherd for each liaison relationship to having a single shepherd or small group of shepherds that would act as the main point of contact for all liaison manager activities.


Mark Nottingham said that it would be good to finish that discussion before IETF 110, when the IAB would traditionally review and assign liaison shepherds as the IAB membership changes.


Ben Campbell said that the discussion about this on the mailing list may be converging towards agreement. The IAB will continue the discussion by email.


### 8. Executive Session: ISOC Board of Trustees Appointments


The IAB discussed the appointments to the ISOC Board of Trustees in an executive session.


