
Minutes of the 2021-09-08 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Michelle Cotton (IANA Liaison)
* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* David Schinazi


##### Observers:


* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following minutes were approved:


* 2021-08-11 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-08-18)  

2021-08-25 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-08-25)


The following minutes remain under review:


* 2021-09-01 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-09-01)


1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2021-07-14: Jari Arkko to set up an outline for a document on consolidation and discovery that the IAB will live-edit at a future technical discussion session.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to post the call for papers for the Workshop on Analyzing IETF Data (AID) to the IAB list, and send the CFP to IETF-Announce, IRTF-Announce, and architecture-discuss lists.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to set up aid-workshop-pc@iab.org mailing list.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it out for community review.
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN NomCom appointment (IAB to have 24 hours to review text first).
* 2021-08-25: Cindy Morgan to coordinate with Greg Wood to advertise the AID workshop on social media and other relevant lists.
* 2021-09-01: Wes Hardaker, Tommy Pauly, and Jari Arkko to interview ICANN NomCom candidate. (Cindy Morgan to schedule interview.)


##### OBE:


* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker to send mail to the arch-discuss list at the appropriate time on the work ongoing in the ICANN root server system (once the work stabilizes).


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to see if he can find someone to speak to the IAB about data privacy and the role of data (AI efforts).
* 2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule reviews of ICNRG and PANRG.
* 2021-08-25: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to begin the process to set up a formal liaison relationship with ISO/TC 154.
* 2021-08-25: Jari Arkko to reach out to Ted Hardie regarding the ICANN RSS GWG.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.


##### New:


* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2021-09-08: Mirja Kühlewind to send the liaison statement to ITU-T SG13 on DNI.
* 2021-09-08: Mirja Kühlewind to send the liaison statement to ITU-T SG13 on Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) (once Scott Mansfield confirms the changes to the text).
* 2021-09-08: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the ICANN NomCom appointment once the feedback period ends on 2021-09-15.
* 2021-09-08: Tommy Pauly to draft text for the message to the ICANN NomCom candidate who is not selected.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/


* draft-iab-arpa-authoritative-servers-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-use-it-or-lose-it-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ends 2021-09-22)


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


* DANE Authentication for Network Clients Everywhere (dance)  

Internal Review  

IESG Telechat: 2021-09-09
* MAC Address Device Identification for Network and Application  

Services (madinas)  

External Review  

IESG Telechat: 2021-09-09
* Oblivious Applications using Relayed HTTP (oarh)  

[Formerly Oblivious HTTP (ohttp)]  

External Review  

IESG Telechat: 2021-09-23


Tommy Pauly asked whether the IAB should be sending confirmation to the IESG that the IAB had reviewed proposed WG charters, even when there was no feedback. The IAB agreed that both confirmation and feedback would be good, and that they could be sent back to the IESG through the IESG liaison. This will be further discussed at a future IAB call.


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 08 September 2021
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
- ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the July 2021 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times.  These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and 
not time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.  
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
 
Other News:
 
None to report.
 
IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting Minutes:
 
Meeting minutes from the 26 August 2021 IETF-IANA Group call are 
currently under review.
 
MEETING MINUTES - END
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Michelle Cotton–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF chair report to the IAB for the month ending 8 September 2021.

# Research Groups

Still seeking co-chair for HRPC. 

IAB reviews of research groups are taking place via Webex between IETF 
meetings with the PANRG review taking place on 22 September. Review of 
ICNRG is being scheduled for December. 

# ANRP

The ANRP award talks for IETF 112 will be given by Thomas Wirtgen, Aqsa 
Kashaf, and Kevin Bock. Details at https://irtf.org/anrp/.

# ANRW

No activity; next steps are to rotate steering committee membership and 
renew the memorandum of understanding with ACM.

# Documents and Errata

draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2 -> RFC 9106
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements with RFC Editor
draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-04 IRSG poll done; update needed
draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g in IRSG review
draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke pending IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-panrg-questions pending IESG conflict review
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 in IRSG review (update needed)
draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-21 IRSG review done, response to crypto-panel needed
draft-irtf-qirg-principles-07 in IRSG review
draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-06 in IRSG review
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


#### 2.3. RFC Editor Liaison Report


–Begin RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–



```
The ad-hoc XML review committee convened by the RSOC took a few weeks 
off in August and is finally in the closing stretch.  Then we can turn 
to updating RFC 7991 and addressing the question of whether to revise 
the XML in published RFCs to match the final v3 vocabulary.

The [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] has been looking at the issue 
that the RFC series is not indexed in Google Scholar, an issue first 
noted in 2011.  A few attempts to fix it didn't work, in part because we 
misunderstood how the indexing works, e.g., search spiders don't run 
Javascript so the attributes have to be in the base document, not added 
by scripts.

All of the IETF's web sites suffer from a lack of site indexes to make
interesting pages easy to find.  Some experiments will help.

At the RPC's request the [Temporary RFC Series Project Manager] wrote 
some scripts to automate the coding of section references into drafts, 
so the editors don't have to do it manually.  We are looking to see if 
there are other small but time-consuming tasks like this that can be 
automated.
```

–End RFC Editor Liaison Report, John Levine–


### 3. Recruiting for IAB-appointed positions


The IAB discussed recruitment for IAB-appointed positions, noting that there has been some difficulty in getting diverse candidate pools for certain appointments.


Between 2019 and today, the IAB has sent out calls for nominations to fill 12 positions. In turn, the IAB received 50 responses to those calls for nominations from 37 distinct candidates. 9 people responded to more than one call for nominations, with 5 people responding to two different calls for nominations and 4 people responding to three different calls for nominations.


Cindy Morgan noted that North America is disproportionately represented in the candidate pool for IAB-appointed positions as compared to the IETF as a whole. Between 2019 and today, 59.5% of the candidates for IAB-appointed positions have been from the United States and 10.8% have been from Canada. In comparison, only 39.6% of the people who attended IETF 111 were from the United States, and 4.5% were from Canada.


Mirja Kühlewind observed that the data pool for the candidates for IAB-appointed positions is so small that it may not be useful to try to get demographic information from it, especially since IAB-appointed positions often require very specific expertise.


Cullen Jennings said that the people who are usually considered for IAB-appointed roles are known quantities because they have already served in other IETF roles, and suggested that the way to increase diversity would be to broaden the scope of who is considered for WG chair and I-D/RFC author positions.


Tommy Pauly noted that some of the most difficult positions to fill are those related to ICANN, and asked if the IAB should start recruiting more IETF people to go to ICANN in order to increase the number of qualified candidates for those roles.


Jared Mauch expressed concern that the feedback in the recent IETF-wide survey indicated that people who participate in the IETF would not necessarily recommend that to others.


Jari Arkko noted that there has been relative success in increasing gender diversity because people were willing to highlight the issue, but that he has not seen the same thing happen for geographical diversity.


Cullen Jennings observed that he does not tend to consciously consider geographical diversity in the same way that he does race and gender.


Mirja Kühlewind said that the IAB should figure out what criteria they are looking for when making appointments.


Jiankang Yao noted that COVID-19 has also had an impact; it may be easier to get people to volunteer for things when there is the prospect of being able to travel to a meeting, rather than trying to fit in another conference call. He added that doing more outreach to drive people into the IETF would also help improve the diversity situation.


Mirja Kühlewind said that another part of the problem is that the IAB may not be reaching the right people by sending calls for nominations to the IETF-Announce list, and suggested also targeting specific WG lists, depending on the role being filled.


Colin Perkins suggested asking liaisons to help find candidates.


Mirja Kühlewind agreed, and said that having a list of qualified people to reach out to would be helpful. The Liaison Coordinators took and action to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.


### 4. Membership on iab@iab.org mailing list and Slack channel


This discussion was deferred to email and/or a future meeting.


### 5. Response to recent ITU-T Liaison Statements


The IAB approved the text for a response to liaison statements from ITU-T SG-13 on Y.DNI.fr Framework. Mirja Kühlewind will send out the liaison statement.


The IAB approved the text for a response to liaison statements from ITU-T SG-13 on Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). Mirja Kühlewind will send out the liaison statement once Scott Mansfield confirms changes to the text.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The Next IAB meeting will be on Wednesday, 2021-09-22 at 1400 UTC.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB discussed the IETF appointment to the ICANN NomCom in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send out an e-vote once the feedback period ends on 2021-09-15.


### 8. Executive Session: ISO/TC 46 Liaison Manager Role


This discussion was deferred to email and/or a future meeting.


