
Minutes of the 2021-06-30 IAB Teleconference
--------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Tommy Pauly
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Russ White


##### Observers:


* Warren Kumari
* Greg Wood


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan noted that an item on the IAB appointment to the ICANN NomCom was removed from the agenda because she is still waiting to get some of the necessary information that should be included in the call for nominations from ICANN.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2021-06-16 business meeting – (draft submitted 2021-06-16)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2021-06-23 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2021-06-23)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2021-06-16: Cindy Morgan to follow up on the Community Coordination Group appointments.
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko to bring the tech trends topic from retreat to an IAB meeting in June.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-04-27: Deborah Brungard to work with Alvaro Retana (Jiankang Yao, Zhenbin Li) on a proposal about the IAB coordinating outreach efforts.
* 2021-04-29: Karen O’Donoghue to arrange a discussion between the IAB and the ISOC team working on moderation issues.
* 2021-05-18: Ben Campbell (with Tommy Pauly and Wes Hardaker) to draft an IAB Statement on inclusive language.
* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-29: Tommy Pauly to come up with a list of things for the IAB to review during the WG chartering process.
	+ Check back in August 2021
* 2021-05-18: Mirja Kühlewind and Colin Perkins to continue working with Niels ten Oever to refine the proposal for a workshop on IETF participation trends.
	+ Check back in August 2021
* 2021-05-26: Jari Arkko and Wes Hardaker to send mail to the arch-discuss list at the appropriate time on the work ongoing in the ICANN root server system (once the work stabilizes).


##### New:


2021-06-30: Colin Perkins to work with Cindy Morgan to schedule reviews of ICNRG and PANRG.


2021-06-30: Cindy Morgan to close the mailing lists for concluded IAB Programs and Initiatives.


2021-06-30: Cindy Morgan to send messages to the mailing lists for  

the CARIS, DEDR, MARNEW, and SEMI workshops announcing that the lists will be closed (and then close the lists).


2021-06-30: Cindy Morgan to close the single-use mailing lists that were used for various personnel discussions.


2021-06-30: Mirja Kühlewind to follow up with the chirp@iab.org list about whether it can be closed.


2021-06-30: Martin Vigoureux to send mail to the IAB and IESG about the l3boundaries@iab.org list.


2021-06-30: Cindy Morgan/IAB to follow up with the EName Workshop program committee to see if there are notes about the workshop that can be published.


2021-06-30: Karen O’Donoghue and Colin Perkins to see if they can find someone to speak to the IAB about data privacy and the role of data (AI efforts).


2021-06-30: Jari Arkko to frame possible IAB discussion topics on the role of interoperable apps in the Internet and the role of discovery in choice/distributed architectures.


### 2. IAB at IETF 111


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the Doodle polls to select times for the pre- and post-IETF 111 meetings with the IESG.


Mirja Kühlewind said that the IABOpen agenda will include the usual updates about documents and Programs. She suggested also giving an update on the IAB’s liaison handling efforts now that the liaison coordinators have been named.


Colin Perkins will work with Cindy Morgan to schedule reviews of ICNRG and PANRG with the IAB sometime after IETF 111.


### 3. IAB Mailing List Audit


The IAB agreed to close the following email lists that were associated with concluded IAB Programs and Initiatives:


* dnsi@iab.org
* httpevol@iab.org
* i18n@iab.org
* ietf-liaisons@iab.org
* inip@iab.org
* ipevol@iab.org
* itu-t-program@iab.org
* ls-oversight@iab.org
* name-resolution@iab.org
* privacy-program@iab.org
* privsec-program@iab.org
* security-program@iab.org
* serial@iab.org
* stackevo@iab.org


The IAB agreed to close the following mailing lists that were associated with concluded IAB workshops after Cindy Morgan sends a message to each list announcing their closure:


* caris@iab.org
* dedr-pc@iab.org
* dedr-workshop@iab.org
* marnew-pc@iab.org
* semi-workshop@iab.org


The IAB also agreed to close several single-use mailing lists that were used for various personnel discussions.


Mirja Kühlewind will follow up with the chirp@iab.org list about whether it is still needed.


Martin Vigoureux will send mail to the IAB and IESG about the l3boundaries@iab.org list.


There are two mailing lists related to the IAB’s 2017 workshop on Explicit Internet Naming Systems (EName); however, since a workshop report was not published, the IAB agreed to leave those lists open for now and to follow up with the workshop program committee about whether there were any conclusions from the workshop that can be published.


### 4. Tech Trends from IAB Retreat


Jari Arkko briefly reviewed several topics that were discussed during the IAB retreat from four different angles.


From an economics angle:


* Incentives for standards among big players
* Moving up the stack, decreasing interoperability between proprietary islands of applications
* Surveillance capitalism and data privacy
* Centralization/consolidation


From a technical angle:


* Deployable security, identity for e2e encryption
* QoS


From a needs angle:


* Critical industry usage
* Resilience
* Observability
* Network – application collaboration
* Environmental friendliness


Jari Arkko noted that technology is affected by various interests. The IETF is best at taking very concrete steps, but there is also need to pay attention to the earlier discussions and how Internet evolution affects other things. He asked if things can be broken down into smaller pieces to help better understand trends.


From an economics angle, the IAB could possibly focus more on data privacy and the role of data, the role of interoperable apps in the Internet, and the role of discovery in choice/distributed architectures.


From a political angle, the IAB could possibly look at regulatory issues such as crypto legislation, the role of the IAB and the IETF in talking about visions for what kind of global Internet we want, and gain awareness on regulatory and moderation issues not related to technology.


From a needs angle, the IAB could focus on:


* Distributed, resilient infrastructure (CAs, DNS resolvers, CDNs)
* Observability (possibly an IRTF topic)
* Going beyond RFC 8558 in path signals
* Reduction of power consumption


Karen O’Donoghue will try to find someone from ISOC to talk to the IAB about the AI efforts around data privacy. Colin Perkins will reach out to the Privacy Enhancements and Assessments Research Group.


The IAB will continue to discuss this over email and at their next meeting on 2021-07-14.


### 5. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2021-07-14 at 1400 UTC.


