
Minutes of the 2022-07-26 IAB Business Meeting, Philadelphia
------------------------------------------------------------


### 0. Attendance


#### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Russ White  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


#### Regrets:


Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)


#### Guest:


Mark Nottingham


### 1. draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization


The IAB discussed draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization with Mark Nottingham and debated whether the IAB should adopt the document.


Cindy Morgan will send a message to the architecture-discuss list saying that the IAB will discuss adoption of the draft at a future IAB meeting (date TBD). In the meantime, the IAB will review the document. If there is not consensus between the IAB and the author, then the document will not proceed on the IAB stream and can be taken to some other venue.


### 2. Next steps for the Model-T program


Jari Arkko reported that the activity level in the Model-T program is very low. The IAB agreed that while the documents are useful, the Program itself may not be necessary.


At the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 114, the IAB will announce that they are considering closing the Model-T Program, but will progress the work on the related documents in the IAB and continue the discussions about the threat model and other related topics on the architecture-discuss list.


### 3. IAB statement on routing security


This topic was deferred to a future IAB Agenda.


