
Minutes of the 2022-05-04 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Wes Hardaker  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Tommy Pauly  

David Schinazi


##### Observers:


None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


An item on the proposed IAB Workshop on in-network support for troubleshooting and security (ISTS) was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-04-13 business meeting – (posted 2022-04-13)
* 2022-04-20 business meeting – (posted 2022-04-20)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-04-27 technical discussion – (posted 2022-04-27)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to add information about IAB workshops to the “IAB Lore for New Members” slide deck.
* 2022-04-13: Cindy Morgan to schedule interviews for the GWG appointment. (Interview team: Jari Arkko, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, Russ White, Jiankang Yao)
* 2022-04-13: Jari Arkko to start a document with potential questions for GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-13: All IAB to reach out to potential RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-04-20: Cindy Morgan to follow up on the ICANN NomCom appointment announcements.
* 2022-04-20: Wes Hardaker to reach out to a colleague for a technical discussion on what Internet access means in the current political landscape.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
	+ Check back after 2022 IAB Retreat


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2022-03-09: Zhenbin Li to review the new version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators to find out where liaison managers are having trouble accessing documents.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-04-20: Karen O’Donoghue to draft a description for an IAB-ISOC Administrative Support Group.
* 2022-04-20: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to continue discussions on how to refine the liaison tool and approval process.


##### New:


* 2022-05-04: Russ White and Jari Arkko to reach out to the SNAC BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-04: Russ White to reach out to the MSR6 BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-04: Mirja Kühlewind and Lars Eggert to update the retreat agenda.
* 2022-05-04: Cindy Morgan to send out call for community feedback on RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-05-04: Cindy Morgan to schedule RSWG Chair interviews.
* 2022-05-04: Wes Hardaker, Deborah Brungard, and Qin Wu to interview RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-05-04: Wes Hardaker to start a document with interview questions for the RSWG candidates.
* 2022-05-04: Mirja Kühlewind to update the ISTS workshop proposal.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: Edit


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* No new initial charters in progress


#### 1.7. Proposed BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bof-requests>


* bofreq-lemon-stub-network-auto-configuration-for-ipv6-03  

Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6
	+ Russ White and Jari Arkko will reach out to the proponents of the  
	
	proposed SNAC BOF.
* bofreq-liu-multicast-source-routing-over-ipv6msr6-12  

Multicast Source Routing over IPv6
	+ Russ White will reach out to the proponents of the proposed MSR6 BOF.


### 2. Retreat Planning


The IAB reviewed the agenda for their 2022 retreat.


Cullen Jennings suggested moving topics that would benefit from more informal discussion to Thursday, so that the discussions can continue over dinner.


Mirja Kühlewind asked IAB members to each provide a slide about what they think is the most important thing the IAB should be doing over the next year.


Mirja Kühlewind and Lars Eggert will update the retreat agenda.


### 3. RSWG Chair Appointment Update Checkin


The extended nomination period for the RSWG Chair appointment ended 2022-05-03. Cindy Morgan will send out a message soliciting community feedback on the candidates.


The IAB agreed that it would be desirable to hold joint interviews with the IESG, assuming the IESG is amenable to that plan. Mirja Kühlewind has added an item to the IESG’s 2022-05-05 agenda to discuss that.


Wes Hardaker, Deborah Brungard, and Qin Wu will interview the RSWG candidates for the IAB. Wes Hardaker will start a document with interview questions.


Cindy Morgan will send out a poll to schedule the interviews.


### 4. Proposed IAB Workshop on in-network support for troubleshooting and security (ISTS)


The IAB reviewed a draft workshop proposal from Mirja Kühlewind and Tommy Pauly on in-network support for troubleshooting and security (ISTS).


Several people were interested in holding a workshop on this topic, but agreed that the scope needs to be well-defined. Cullen Jennings said that the question is not about whether to encrypt or not, but about what to do when you do encrypt. Mallory Knodel agreed, adding that it could be about how to ease the tensions that come with the tradeoffs involved with encryption.


Mirja Kühlewind will update the workshop proposal and bring it back to the IAB for further discussion at the retreat.


### 5. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-05-11 at 0700 PDT.


