
Minutes of the 2022-11-06 IAB Business Meeting, London
------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Attendance


#### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


#### Guests:


Olaf Kolkman (ISOC)  

Martin Thomson


### 2. draft-iab-protocol-maintenance


The IAB discussed whether draft-iab-protocol-maintenance is ready for community review. David Schinazi said that he and Martin Thomson have made substantial changes to the document, including changing the title to “Maintaining Robust Protocols.” David said that they got feedback from several of the people who had objected to previous versions of the document who are now happy to support this for publication.


Cullen Jennings said that he supports the document, but there is one place where it sounds like it means that the specification should be changed to match the implementation. David Schinazi said that was not the intent. Cullen will send text to address this concern.


Martin Thomson asked for a couple of weeks to incorporate the feedback from Cullen Jennings in a new version of the draft. Once the new version is submitted to the Datatracker, the document will come back to an IAB agenda to discuss sending it out for community review.


### 3. IAB response to proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


The IAB worked on their response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security in a live editing session. Mallory Knodel will incorporate the changes discussed and the IAB will submit the final version before the deadline on 2022-11-21.


Mallory Knodel suggested that the IAB may also want to make a post on the IETF blog once the comments are submitted.


### 4. IDR Workshop Proposal


Russ White reported that he does not see a path forward for the IDR workshop proposal that was initially discussed by the IAB at their meeting on 2022-10-05. Russ said that he plans to have some one-on-one discussions with people in the Routing Area during IETF 115 to see if there is a way to restructure this in a way so that it could proceed.


Lars Eggert suggested that this conversation might be better if it was driven by younger researchers, rather than the same people who have been having the same arguments for the past 20 years.


Mirja Kühlewind said that we could also consider other forms to start a discussion, e.g. a document, rather than a workshop. Or we could first have another IAB Technical discussion with some invited talks.


### 5. draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration


The IAB discussed whether draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration is ready for publication.


Several people asked for more time to review the latest version of the document. The IAB will review draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration and make a decision whether to approve it at their 2022-12-07 business meeting.


### 6. draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning


The IAB discussed whether draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning is ready to be adopted on the IAB stream.


Cindy Morgan will send a notice to the architecture-discuss list that the IAB is planning to discuss adoption of this draft at their 2022-12-07 business meeting.


### 7. draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle


The IAB discussed whether draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle is ready to adopt on the IAB stream.


Mallory Knodel said that she thinks the document could include more about RFC 6973 (Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols).


Jari Arkko will update draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle based on the IAB discussion, and then the IAB will revisit whether the document is ready to be adopted on the IAB stream.


