
Minutes of the 2022-03-09 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Ben Campbell  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel (incoming IAB)  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Zhenbin Li  

Jared Mauch  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu (incoming IAB)  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Wes Hardaker  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)


##### Observers:


Warren Kumari  

Robert Sparks


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


The following executive sessions were added to the end of the agenda:


* IRTF RG Chair Appointment
* IAB Chair Selection


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-02-23 business meeting and technical discussion – (posted 2022-02-23)


The following meeting minute remain under review:


* 2022-03-02 business meeting – (posted 2022-03-02)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to set up a Trello board to track RFC Editor Model transition actions.
* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to update the timeline and text for the ICANN GWG call for nominations and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2022-03-02: All IAB to sign up for BOF coverage at IETF 113.
* 2022-03-02: Peter Saint-Andre to reach out to Jay Daley regarding a possible extension to the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract until the RSCE is seated. Based on that conversation, RSOC will make a recommendation to the IAB.
* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline and call for nominations for the RSWG Chair appointment(s).
* 2022-03-02: Mirja Kühlewind to draft a reply to Jay Daley’s email regarding RSCE recruitment.
* 2022-02-23: All IAB to send Cullen Jennings suggestions on how to narrow the scope for a Metaverse workshop proposal.
* 2022-01-12: Deborah Brungard to report back to the IAB on ISOC planning for WTSA.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
	+ Check back after next check-in with Liaison Managers (~2022-03).
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113


##### In Progress:


2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.


2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.


2022-02-23: Cullen Jennings (with input from the IAB) to draft a Metaverse workshop proposal.


##### New:


* 2022-03-09: IAB to provide feedback on ISOC’s “IETF and policy makers – problem statement” document that came out of WTSA.
* 2022-03-09: Mirja Kühlewind to reach out to Peter Saint-Andre and the RFC Editor Future Development Program chairs about editorial changes to draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-12.
* 2022-03-09: Mirja Kühlewind to draft text for a note that indicates that the IAB endorses draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter.
* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to add information about IAB workshops to the “IAB Lore for New Members” slide deck.
* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar for 2022-2023.
* 2022-03-09: Zhenbin Li to review the new version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
	+ Mirja Kühlewind asked for more IAB members to review the current version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration. Zhenbin Li agreed to provide a review. Colin Perkins suggested soliciting feedback from PANRG as well.
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
	+ David Schinazi is working with Martin Thomson on an update for this draft and plan to have something after IETF 113.
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-12  

Community Review ended 2022-03-07


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* No new initial charters in progress


### 2. Temporary RFC Series Project Manager Contract Extension


The IAB agreed to endorse RSOC’s proposal to extend the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract. Mirja Kühlewind will follow up with Jay Daley.


### 3. BOF Coverage at IETF 113


Wiki: <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/Bof113>


* Computing-Aware Networking (CAN)  

IAB Shepherd: Zhenbin Li  

Coverage: Russ White
* Media Over QUIC (MOQ)  

IAB Shepherd: Tommy Pauly  

Coverage: David Schinazi
* Source Address Validation in Intra-domain and Inter-domain  

Networks (SAVNET)  

IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko  

Coverage: Jared Mauch


### 4. draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model


The IAB discussed whether draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model is ready to approve. Mirja Kühlewind noted that the changes that came in during the community review period were editorial, and draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-12 was posted to address those concerns.


There may be a few minor editorial changes pending on draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model; the IAB agreed to approve the document pending those changes. Mirja Kühlewind will coordinate with the document editor and RFC Editor Future Development Program chairs to make sure those changes are incorporated before an approval announcement is sent to the RFC Editor.


Lars Eggert noted that there is a management issue on the 2022-03-10 IESG Telechat for the IESG to endorse draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model.


Three related IETF-stream documents are on the IESG agenda for 2022-03-10:


* draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter
* draft-rosen-rfcefdp-update-2026
* draft-rsalz-2028bis


The IAB agreed to make a statement noting that the IAB endorses the changes to the IAB charter proposed in draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter. Mirja Kühlewind will send a note indicating such to the document editor and the IESG.


### 5. IAB Lore for New Members


Cindy Morgan presented “IAB Lore for New Members.” The slides are available at https://tinyurl.com/loreiab. Topics included:


* IAB Mailing Lists
* IAB Agendas
* IAB Teleconferences
* IAB Decisions
* IAB Technical Programs and Administrative Support Groups
* IAB Documents
* IAB Role in Evaluating New Work
* IAB Appointments and Confirmations
* IAB Statements


Mirja Kühlewind suggested that a new section be added to this slide deck to cover IAB Workshops. Cindy Morgan will add this to the presentation.


### 6. IAB Meeting Time, Length, and Cadence


The IAB agreed to keep their teleconferences at 0700 US/Pacific time for 2022-2023. Cindy Morgan will send reminders out when certain regions will be affected by time changes (i.e. Daylight Savings/Summer Time).


The IAB agreed to keep IAB teleconferences to one hour.


The IAB agreed to continue alternating regular business meetings with reserved business meetings and reserved technical discussion slots.


### 7. Sunday at IETF 113


The IAB agreed to add a topic on “Leadership Communication Tools” (e.g. Slack, Zulip) to the joint IAB/IESG agenda on Sunday, 2022-03-20.


Cindy Morgan will send the IAB a pointer to the agenda wiki pages.


### 8. Executive Session: IRTF RG Chair Appointment


An IRTF Research Group chair appointment was discussed in an executive session.


### 9. IAB Chair Selection


Mirja Kühlewind recused herself from the discussion and left the teleconference. The IAB Chair selection for 2022-2023 was discussed in an executive session.


