
Minutes of the 2022-06-29 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mallory Knodel
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Qin Wu
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-06-15 business meeting – (posted 2022-06-15)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-06-22 business meeting – (posted 2022-06-22)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-06-15: Jari Arkko to start a discussion about whether the IAB should pick up draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization on the IAB Stream.
* 2022-06-22: Jari Arkko to follow up with Rich Salz about the IAB Workshop on environmental impacts of the Internet.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to propose a note to add to draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model about the document being approved by an open process in the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to set up the IAB-ISOC ASG in the Datatracker.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to send out the call for volunteers for the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager position.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to send out a call for feedback on the RZERC appointment.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications. (Goal: 2022-07-13)
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-06-15: David Schinazi to work with Martin Thomson on a new revision to draft-iab-protocol-maintenance that incorporates the feedback received to date.
* 2022-06-22: Russ White to review the MIMI BOF request.
* 2022-06-22: Wes Hardaker to propose text for an IAB response to the proposal for SAC113 implementation.
* 2022-06-22: Mirja Kühlewind et al find a time slot for the ISTS Workshop, possibly around RIPE.
* 2022-06-22: Jari Arkko and Lars Eggert to finalize the Call for Papers text for the “Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop.”
* 2022-06-22: Karen O’Donoghue to finalize the initial ISOC members of the IAB-ISOC ASG.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB Agenda at IETF 114 to include Sunday and Tuesday business meetings, in addition to the joint meetings with the IESG.


##### New:


* 2022-06-29: Mallory Knodel and Tommy Pauly to review and edit the text for the IAB response to the US government “Request for Information on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.”
* 2022-06-29: Colin Perkins to ask PEARG for input on the IAB response to the US government “Request for Information on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.”
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-aid-workshop.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-mnqeu-report out for community review.
* 2022-06-29: Wes Hardaker to send the IAB response to the SAC113 Implementation proposal to Harald Alvestrand.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Board Liaison appointment.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to draft a note to the IESG with the IAB’s recommendation for the RSWG chair appointments.
* 2022-06-29: Qin Wu to send the note drafted by Cindy Morgan with the IAB’s recommendation on the RSWG chair appointments to the iesg-only list.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Community Review ends 2022-06-28
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-03  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-07  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: AUTH48


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)  

IESG State: Internal Steering Group/IAB Review  

IESG Telechat: 2022-06-30  

IAB Reviewer: Mallory Knodel


#### 1.7. IETF 114 BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/bofs/>


* JSON Web Proofs (JWP)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested
* Media Over QUIC (MOQ)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested
* Multicast Source Routing over IPv6 (MSR6)  

IAB Shepherds: Deborah Brungard, Russ White
* Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (SATP)  

IAB Shepherd: Wes Hardaker
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)  

IAB Shepherds: Jari Arkko, David Schinazi
* Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (SNAC)  

IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko, Russ White
* Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested (placeholder for WG to be chartered)


### 2. Possible response to a US government RFI related to PPM


The IAB discussed a possible response to the [U.S. Government Request for Information on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/06/09/2022-12432/request-for-information-on-advancing-privacy-enhancing-technologies) that was drafted by the PPM WG Chairs.


Colin Perkins will ask PEARG if they have any input to the response to the RFI.


Mallory Knodel and Tommy Pauly will refine the text for the IAB response to the RFI and bring it back to the IAB for approval at the 2022-07-06 meeting. Colin Perkins and Russ White agreed to review the updated text once it is available.


### 3. draft-iab-aid-workshop


The IAB approved draft-iab-aid-workshop-01 as an Informational RFC on the IAB stream. Cindy Morgan will send an approval announcement to the RFC Editor.


### 4. draft-iab-mnqeu-report


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-mnqeu-report-03 out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review announcement.


### 5. Follow up on SAC113 Implementation


The IAB approved the text of a message for Harald Alvestrand to take back to the ICANN Board about the proposal for SAC113 implementation modulo one change proposed by Jiankang Yao. Wes Hardaker will send the approved text to Harald.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


The IAB discussed the ICANN Board Liaison appointment in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send a call for feedback on the incumbent.


### 7. Executive Session: RSWG Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed the RSWG chair appointment in an executive session. The IAB provisionally approved the candidate for the IAB-appointed RSWG chair position that was suggested by the interview team, under the condition that the IESG also chooses the candidate suggested by the interview team for the IESG-appointed RSWG chair position. If the IESG would prefer to choose a different candidate, then the IAB would like to discuss both appointments together with the IESG.


Cindy Morgan will draft a note for Qin Wu to send to the IAB explaining their rationale.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-07-06 at 0700 PDT.


