
Minutes of the 2022-02-23 IAB Business Meeting and Technical Discussion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mallory Knodel (incoming IAB)
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Qin Wu (incoming IAB)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Ben Campbell
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)


##### Observers:


* Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


The IAB briefly discussed when to hold the Sunday meetings at IETF 113 (IESG-only, joint IAB/IESG, IAB-only). Since the IAB will have people participating remotely from North America and China, having the IAB meetings after 13:00 Vienna time is preferred.


The IESG will discuss this topic at their informal meeting on 2022-02-24 and propose a schedule that factors in the Hackathon closing and the Welcome Reception.


Lars Eggert noted that the IAB, IESG, and LLC retreats are being planned for the week of 2022-05-16 in the San Francisco Bay Area. He will send out a Doodle poll to try and see who plans to participate in person, noting that the COVID situation means that people may change their plans later.


#### 1.3. New action items


* 2022-02-23: All IAB to send Cullen Jennings suggestions on how to narrow the scope for a Metaverse workshop proposal.
* 2022-02-23: Cullen Jennings (with input from the IAB) to draft a Metaverse workshop proposal.


### 2. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB selected a candidate for the ISOC Board of Trustees. Cindy Morgan will send the candidate to the IESG for confirmation as outlined in RFC 3677.


### 3. Technical Discussion: 2022 Workshop Ideas


Mirja Kühlewind reported on the results of the recent IAB survey for potential workshop topics.


According to the survey, trends that the IAB sees impacting the Internet include:


* Political tensions (balkanization, fragmentation, crypto wars)
* Non-standard attempts at decentralization (“web3”)
* Privacy regulation and content filtering
* Higher reliance on the Internet (working, communication, critical services, more devices) and multi-connectivity; digital divide; metaverse


Potential workshop topics include:


* (De)centralisation
* (Lightweight) IoT security (and life cycle management)
* Energy efficiency/low carbon Internet/ sustainability of IETF meetings and protocols
* Network and Application Integration/ traffic observability to support network management
* Cryptographically-secure P2P protocols
* Future Internet routing
* ID management
* IETF process:
	+ how successful are RFCs (deployment/ readability)?
	+ how do we attract new areas of work


Mirja Kühlewind will put a poll in the IAB Slack channel to see who is interested in each of these topics.


Jari Arkko added that address encryption at the relays and data collection management and sharing are other trends.


Jared Mauch said that much of the encryption work neglects operational concerns.


Deborah Brungard suggested that a joint workshop with the operator community might be helpful.


Cullen Jennings presented slides about on-going activities related to the Metaverse and said that there are many topics related that might make interesting IAB workshops, including:


* Volumetric video
	+ Texture mapped mesh
	+ Point cloud
	+ Light fields
* Game State Sync
* Common Inventory
* Roster & Friends
* Messaging
* Real time translation
* Scene description and composition
* Insertable applications
* Distributed Name System
* Content Distribution at Scale
* Haptics
* Low Latency Transports
* Connection to Real World
* Super Cookies
* Permissions
* Privacy


Cullen Jennings noted that this is a wide range of topics of things that could end in IETF standardization. A workshop could about what the IETF should do in terms of standardizing the Metaverse. He added that a workshop on this might bring new people into the IETF, as many of the people working on this are outside of the regular IETF sphere.


Lars Eggert observed that saying “the Metaverse” implies one thing, but it may end up being a bunch of different vendors in a siloed state.


Cullen Jennings agreed that it was likely to be siloed initially, but that the IETF could help to standardize the building blocks that vendors use to assemble their version of the Metaverse.


Tommy Pauly said that if the Metaverse is to be federated, standards will need to go out and court the people making the hardware, otherwise it could be very difficult to pull together later.


Cullen Jennings said that he sees a business case for making things compatible.


Cullen Jennings asked the IAB to send him suggestions on how to narrow the scope for a Metaverse workshop. Based on that input, Cullen will draft a workshop proposal.


The IAB will add a topic to continue discussing ideas around a potential workshop on the Metaverse at the joint IAB/IESG meeting at IETF 113 and continue discussion, also on other topics, after IETF-113.


