
Minutes of the 2022-07-06 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mallory Knodel
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Russ White
* Qin Wu
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* David Schinazi
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


New items were added to the agenda about the RFC Editor Model transition and a conflict of interest disclosure.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-06-22 business meeting – (posted 2022-06-22)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-06-29 business meeting – (posted 2022-06-29)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB Agenda at IETF 114 to include Sunday and Tuesday business meetings, in addition to the joint meetings with the IESG.
* 2022-06-22: Wes Hardaker to propose text for an IAB response to the proposal for SAC113 implementation.
* 2022-06-22: Russ White to review the MIMI BOF request.
* 2022-06-22: Mirja Kühlewind et al find a time slot for the ISTS Workshop, possibly around RIPE.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-aid-workshop.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-mnqeu-report out for community review.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to send a call for feedback on the ICANN Board Liaison appointment.
* 2022-06-29: Cindy Morgan to draft a note to the IESG with the IAB’s recommendation for the RSWG chair appointments.
* 2022-06-29: Qin Wu to send the note drafted by Cindy Morgan with the IAB’s recommendation on the RSWG chair appointments to the iesg-only list.
* 2022-06-29: Wes Hardaker to send the IAB response to the SAC113 Implementation proposal to Harald Alvestrand.
* 2022-06-29: Mallory Knodel and Tommy Pauly to review and edit the text for the IAB response to the US government “Request for Information on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.”
* 2022-06-29: Colin Perkins to ask PEARG for input on the IAB response to the US government “Request for Information on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.”


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of  

potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed  

positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications. (Goal: 2022-07-13)
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-06-15: David Schinazi to work with Martin Thomson on a new revision to draft-iab-protocol-maintenance that incorporates the feedback received to date.
* 2022-06-22: Jari Arkko and Lars Eggert to finalize the Call for Papers text for the “Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop.”
* 2022-06-22: Karen O’Donoghue to finalize the initial ISOC members of the IAB-ISOC ASG.


##### New:


* 2022-07-06: Cindy Morgan to update the BOF coverage wiki for IETF 114.
* 2022-07-06: Jari Arkko to propose additional text for the IAB Statement to OSTP on Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.
* 2022-07-06: Mirja Kühlewind to send out the IAB Statement to OSTP on Privacy-Enhancing Technologies once the additional text from Jari Arkko has been added.
* 2022-07-06: Mirja Kühlewind to send a draft IAB Open agenda out to the IAB for review.
* 2022-07-06: Wes Hardaker to draft a message to the RFC Editor Future Development Program about the closure of the Program.
* 2022-07-06: Cindy Morgan and Mirja Kühlewind to finalize the IAB agenda for IETF 114.
* 2022-07-06: IAB to finalize the name/acronym for the ISTS Workshop.
* 2022-07-06: Cindy Morgan to update the RFC Editor Model (Version 3) transition announcement based on the feedback received.
* 2022-07-06: Warren Kumari to try and schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.
* 2022-07-06: Cindy Morgan to reach out to Russ White about a possible IAB statement on routing security.
* 2022-07-06: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the CCG appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-03  

IAB State: Community Review (ends 2022-07-27)
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-07  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)  

IESG State: External Review  

IESG Telechat: 2022-07-14  

IAB Reviewer: Mallory Knodel


#### 1.7. IETF 114 BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/bofs/>


BOF Coverage wiki: <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/Bof114>


* JSON Web Proofs (JWP)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested  

IAB Coverage: Jari Arkko
* Media Over QUIC (MOQ)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested  

IAB Coverage: Mirja Kühlewind, Tommy Pauly
* Multicast Source Routing over IPv6 (MSR6)  

IAB Shepherds: Deborah Brungard, Russ White  

IAB Coverage: Deborah Brungard, Russ White
* Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (SATP)  

IAB Shepherd: Wes Hardaker  

IAB Coverage: Qin Wu
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)  

IAB Shepherds: Jari Arkko, David Schinazi  

IAB Coverage: TBD
* Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (SNAC)  

IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko, Russ White  

IAB Coverage: Russ White
* Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested (placeholder for WG to be chartered)  

IAB Coverage: Mallory Knodel


### 2. IAB Response to RFI on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies


The IAB discussed their response to the RFI on Advancing Privacy-Enhancing Technologies.


Jari Arkko suggested adding additional text about IETF activities that impact privacy. Jari will propose text in the document. Once those changes have been incorporated, Mirja Kühlewind will send out the response, and Cindy Morgan will post it on the IAB website.


### 3. IAB Open Agenda at IETF 114


The IAB discussed the agenda for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 114.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that there will be a liaison report from the ITU-T. She also suggested inviting someone to talk about the EU’s Digital Markets Act; the IAB agreed this was a good idea.


Mirja Kühlewind will send a draft agenda out to the IAB for review soon.


### 4. IAB Business Meeting Agendas at IETF 114


The IAB discussed potential topics for their meetings at IETF 114.


Mirja Kühlewind suggested asking the ISOC Board of Trustees for an  

update on their governance reform work. Karen O’Donoghue will follow  

up.


Other potential topics include an update from the IETF-IANA Group,  

next steps for the Model-T Program, an IAB statement on routing  

security, and whether to have an additional retreat later in 2022.


### 5. ISTS Workshop


The IAB agreed to hold the ISTS Workshop as an online workshop 17-21 October 2022, with the option of holding an in-person debrief on 24 October 2022, colocated with RIPE in Belgrade.


There was some discussion about updating the name of the workshop to better reflect its current scope; the IAB will continue that discussion via email.


### 6. Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop


Jari Arkko reported that he is setting up a meeting with several people from Akamai to discuss the scope of the workshop.


### 7. Conflict of Interest Update


Wes Hardaker reported that he will be the new non-voting RSSAC representative to the ICANN Board starting in September 2022, and asked the IAB if there were any concerns about conflicts of interest. The IAB did not have any concerns, so long as Wes recuses himself from discussions as needed.


Jari Arkko agreed to take over as the main IAB point of contact for the IETF’s liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors.


Cindy Morgan asked Wes Hardaker to provide an updated COI disclosure for posting on the IAB Website.


### 8. RFC Editor Model (Version 3) Transition and Announcement


Lars Eggert noted that RSOC was officially disbanded with the publication of the new RFC Editor Model (Version 3) as RFC 9280.


The IAB agreed to close the RFC Editor Future Development Program. Wes Hardaker will draft a closure announcement.


The IAB discussed the announcement of the RFC Editor Model (Version 3) transition, RFC Series Working Group, and RFC Series Approval Board establishment. Cindy Morgan will update the text based on the feedback received.


### 9. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB discussed having a technical discussion on several potential topics, but none of them will be ready by 2022-07-13. The next IAB teleconference will be after IETF 114, on 2022-08-10.


Warren Kumari will reach out and try to schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.


Cindy Morgan will reach out to Russ White about a possible IAB statement on routing security.


### 10. Executive Session: CCG Appointment


Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote on the CCG appointment.


