
Minutes of the 2022-09-21 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

David Schinazi  

Sabrina Tanamal (IANA Liaison)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Wes Hardaker  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)


##### Observers:


Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


An item on the M-TEN Workshop was added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-09-07 business meeting – (draft submitted 2022-09-07)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to close the Model-T mailing list (retaining the archives) once the Program closure has been announced.
* 2022-08-24: Lars Eggert to send out a pointer to the video of the Loon presentation at SIGCOMM (once it is available).


##### In Progress:


* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-08-10: Warren Kumari and Wes Hardaker to confer on the next steps for discussions about an alternate DNS system (e.g. Design team, IAB Program, etc.)
* 2022-08-10: Russ White to draft a proposal for a workshop on BGP and routing security.
* 2022-08-24: Wes Hardaker to talk to Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf about a technical discussion to give the IAB an overview on the current state of alternate naming spaces (what the activities are and how they relate to each other; who the current players are). (Was: 2022-07-06: Warren Kumari to try and schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.)
* 2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.


##### New:


* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to put in a session request for IABOPEN at IETF 115.
* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to close the RSOC mailing lists.
* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager candidate.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor – AUTH48
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-04  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ended 2022-08-25)
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-08  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists  

\* Being discussed in RSWG


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (scitt)  

Internal Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-09-22  

IAB Reviewer: Deborah Brungard
* Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (snac)  

External Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-09-22  

IAB Reviewer: Wes Hardaker


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IANA Services Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Sabrina Tanamal–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 21 September 2022

SLA Deliverables Update:

ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the August 2022 monthly
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal
times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and not
time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts.
Monthly reports can be found at: https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-
statistics
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Sabrina Tanamal–


Minutes from the IANA Services Operator and IETF Leadership Meeting on 2022-07-26 have been posted to the IETF-IANA Group record in the Datatracker.


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF Chair report to the IAB for the month ending 21 September 2022.

Research Groups

Appointed Simone Ferlin and Michael Schapira as new co-chairs of ICCRG,
joining Jana Iyengar. Discussion starting around a potential RG focusing
on research and analysis of the standards process that Niels ten Oever
is proposing.

ANRP

The ANRP talks for IETF 115 will be given by Gautam Akiwate, Corrine
Cath, and Daniel Wagner. Expect a call for nominations for the 2023
awards shortly.

ANRW

Working with the TPC chairs and secretariat to wrap-up ANRW 2022.
Initial planning has started for ANRW 2023.

Documents and Errata

With RFC Editor:

draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-26
Holding for references
draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions-09
draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification-08
In IESG Conflict Review:

draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-16
The secretariat has delivered the IESG's approved conflict review
response to the requester
draft-irtf-qirg-principles-11
The IESG is considering the proposed conflict review response
In IRSG Final Poll:

draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf-15
In IRSG Review:

draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-13
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping-06
Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute-06
Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats-03
Revised I-D Needed
Waiting for IRTF Chair:

draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo-12
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-10
IESG Review Completed
Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-11
IESG Review Completed
Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-pearg-censorship-06
Other Activities

Four diversity travel grants were awarded for IETF 115.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


### 3. BOF Shepherds


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bof-requests>


* JSON Web Proofs (JWP)  

bofreq-danyliw-json-web-proofs-jwp-00
	+ No BOF shepherd needed at this point.
* Computing-Aware Networking (CAN)  

bofreq-liu-computing-aware-networking-03
	+ Zhenbin Li shepherded for IETF 113
	+ Zhenbin Li will continue to shepherd this BOF request.
* More Instant Messaging Interoperability (MIMI)  

bofreq-cooper-more-instant-messaging-interoperability-02  

bofreq-mahy-mimi-more-im-interop-00
	+ No BOF shepherd needed at this point.
* Application-Aware Networking (APN)  

bofreq-alston-application-aware-networking-02
	+ No BOF shepherd needed at this point.
* • IPv6 Moving Object Networking (IPMON)  

bofreq-jeong-ipv6-moving-object-networking-ipmon-03
	+ Jari Arkko is interested in this topic, but will wait for the IESG to resolve the outstanding questions for 3GPP before proceeding.
* Time Variant Routing (TVR)  

bofreq-taylor-time-variant-routing-00
	+ Mallory Knodel and Russ White will shepherd this BOF request.
* •Radius Extensions (RADEXT)  

bofreq-dekok-bofreq-dekok-radius-extensions-and-security-00-02
	+ No BOF shepherd needed at this point.
* Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (SATP)  

bofreq-hardjono-secure-asset-transfer-protocol-satp-01
	+ Wes Hardaker shepherded for IETF 114
	+ Wes Hardaker will continue to shepherd this BOF request.


### 4. Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


Several IAB members met on 2022-09-14 to work on the IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.


Mallory Knodel asked the IAB to review the current draft and provide feedback on the scope. The goal is to remind the FTC that there is a role for standards here.


Jari Arkko said that he thinks the response should be relatively brief; where the IAB can add value is by describing the big picture and pointing to relevant documents.


Karen O’Donoghue asked if she could share the current IAB draft inside ISOC, as ISOC is also planning a response. The IAB agreed that was fine, as long as there was an understanding that the IAB draft is not final and should not be shared more widely at this point.


Mallory Knodel will continue working on the text and bring it back to the IAB for review at the 2022-10-05 business meeting.


### 5. IAB Open Meeting at IETF 115


The IAB agreed to request a one-hour session for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 115. Mallory Knodel will co-chair the session with Mirja Kühlewind.


The IAB discussed including agenda topics on Data Security, the M-TEN Workshop, and the E-Impacts Workshop.


### 6. Closure of RSOC Mailing Lists


The IAB closed the RFC Series Oversight Committee (RSOC) back in March 2022, but left the mailing lists open until the RFC Series Consulting Editor (RSCE) was in place. Now that the RSCE is onboard, the IAB agreed to close the RSOC mailing lists.


### 7. M-TEN Workshop Update


Mirja Kühlewind reported that while there is not currently a “workshop” group type in the Datatracker (and adding one would be a fair amount of work), Robert Sparks suggested setting the workshop up as a “team” in the Datatracker, so that sessions could be requested and proceedings could be housed there. The group could be converted to a “workshop” group type once that is available. The IAB agreed that this was a reasonable way to proceed.


The IAB discussed whether to use Meetecho or Webex for the M-TEN Workshop, and agreed to use Webex since it is more widely known with users outside the IETF.


The workshop Program Committee is working to finalize the agenda.


### 8. Executive Session: ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager (Liaison Coordinators)


The IAB discussed the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager in an executive session.


