
Minutes of the 2022-06-01 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Wes Hardaker
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Cullen Jennings
* Mallory Knodel
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Qin Wu
* Jiankang Yao


##### Guests:


* Laurent Ciavaglia (Network Management Research Group Chair)
* Jérôme François (Network Management Research Group Chair)


##### Observers:


* Spencer Dawkins


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


The IAB agreed to add Liz Flynn to the IAB mailing list and Slack channel as backup Secretariat support for Cindy Morgan.


### 2. Network Management Research Group Review


RG Charter: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/nmrg/about/>


Laurent Ciavaglia and Jérôme François updated the IAB on the current activities of the Network Management Research Group (NMRG).


NMRG is the oldest IRTF RG, running for 23+ years. The RG rechartered in 2020. It has published 8 RFCs, and has two more documents currently in IESG conflict review. The RG has held 65 meetings, co-located with IETF and scientific conferences. There are 418 users on the mailing list and their in-person meetings usually attract around 70 participants.


Engagement in NMRG has remained high during IETF meetings, but there has been lower participation in online interim meetings.


The current research agenda includes work on Intent-Based Networking (IBN), Artificial Intelligence in Network Management (AI-NM), and Self-Driving/-Managing Networks (SD/MN).


The IBN problem statement, design goals, and challenges were documented at a 2019 workshop at Network of the Future (NoF 2019). NMRG has two drafts on IBN that are currently in IESG conflict review:


* draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions-09 (Intent-Based Networking – Concepts and Definitions)
* draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification-08 (Intent Classification)


Future plans include supporting diversified research outcomes via RFC publication (IBN, network digital twins) and scientific position papers (e.g. NM AI challenges).


Work items include:


* IBN: focus on IBN use cases and experimental validation
* AI: focus on selected challenges (e.g. support of NM for collaborative AI)
* Network digital twins: define next actions and whether NMRG is the right place to pursue this topic
* Network management in 5G/6G/future networks: high performance networking, network-telemetry, diversity in the infrastructure (convergence network/IT), accountability,…


NMRG is also looking at how it relates to other IRTF activities such as COINRG and T2TRG.


Mirja Kühlewind asked how successful NMRG has been at engaging researchers from outside the IETF community. Jérôme François replied that they try to involve non-IETF people by having colocated meetings at academic conferences.


Mirja Kühlewind said that in her experience, Research Groups are more helpful as a landing zone for researchers and a bridge to the IETF than as a publication venue. Laurent Ciavaglia agreed, noting that the main challenge is to maintain continuous involvement of research teams outside of NMRG meetings. NMRG has had some limited success attracting researchers who are not involved in the IETF.


Wes Hardaker asked if NMRG has seen any intent to deploy or commercial endeavors on the AI or IBN work. Laurent Ciavaglia replied that the core research topics of IDN have not been explored yet and he has not seen much work on it in academic conferences.


Colin Perkins noted that one of the recurring topics in the IAB is the effects of encryption, and asked whether this was a potential topic for NMRG, or if that is more in the standards space. Jérôme François replied that it is not currently a topic for NMRG; it would be up to the participants to decide whether they want to investigate it.


The IAB thanked the NMRG chairs for the update.


### 3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


• 2022-05-04 business meeting – (posted 2022-05-04)  

• 2022-05-11 business meeting – (posted 2022-05-11)


### 4. Action item review


#### Done:


* 2022-05-04: Cindy Morgan to schedule RSWG Chair interviews.
* 2022-05-04: Mirja Kühlewind to update the ISTS workshop proposal.
* 2022-05-04: Russ White to reach out to the MSR6 BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the ICANN RSS GWG candidates and send an announcement.
* 2021-05-11: Mirja Kühlewind to post draft-iab-aid-workshop-01 to the I-D repository.
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan to send out a community review message for draft-iab-aid-workshop-01, once it is posted to the I-D repository.
* 2021-05-11: All IAB to provide a slide for the retreat on “What the IAB should be doing.”
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan (with Mirja Kühlewind) to send an email to the RFC Production Center about archiving IAB-stream AUTH48 emails.
* 2022-05-25: Jiankang Yao to review the proposed SAVNET charter.


#### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.  

– Sometime after IETF 113
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly  

applicable.  

– Check back after 2022 IAB Retreat


#### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-04-20: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to continue discussions on how to refine the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-04-20: Karen O’Donoghue to draft a description for an IAB-ISOC Administrative Support Group.
* 2021-05-11: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the SAT BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-04: Wes Hardaker, Deborah Brungard, and Qin Wu to interview RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-05-19: Jari Arkko, Wes Hardaker, Cullen Jennings, Mallory Knodel, and Russ White to review draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on secure identity management.


#### Updated:


* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators to find out where liaison managers are having trouble accessing documents for their liaising SDO.


#### New:


* 2022-06-01: Mirja Kühlewind to set up a meeting with the people interested in working on the ISTS workshop proposal.
* 2022-06-01: Jari Arkko to review the retreat notes for additional action items.
* 2022-06-01: Cindy Morgan to set up the IETF-IEEE 802 Administrative Support Group in the Datatracker.
* 2022-06-01: Mirja Kühlewind to find a co-chair for the IAB Open session at IETF 114.
* 2022-06-01: Cindy Morgan to send out a call for feedback on the CCG appointment.


### 5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Community Review ends 2022-06-28
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-07  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: Edit


### 6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Source Address Validation in Intra-domain and Inter-domain Networks (SAVNET)  

Internal Review (on agenda of 2022-06-02 IESG telechat)


### 7. Proposed BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bof-requests>


* bofreq-danyliw-tigress-01  

Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)
* bofreq-moskowitz-scvp-validation-request-tls-extension-00  

SCVP Validation Request TLS Extension (VRTE)
* bofreq-lemon-stub-network-auto-configuration-for-ipv6-04  

Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (SNAC)
* bofreq-hardie-media-over-quic-03  

Media Over QUIC (MOQ)
* bofreq-birkholz-supply-chain-integrity-transparency-and-trust-scitt-08  

Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)
* bofreq-miller-json-web-proofs-00  

JSON Web Proofs
* bofreq-hardjono-secure-asset-transfer-protocol-04  

Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (SAT)  

\* Wes Hardaker to review
* bofreq-liu-multicast-source-routing-over-ipv6msr6-13  

Multicast Source Routing over IPv6 (MSR6)  

\* Russ White to review


### 8. IAB IETF-IEEE administrative support group


The IAB approved the formation of an IETF-IEEE administrative support group. Cindy Morgan will set this up in the Datatracker.


### 9. IAB Open Meeting at IETF 114


The IAB agreed to request a one-hour session for the IAB Open Meeting at IETF 114.


The IAB will continue discussions about who will serve as co-chair for the meeting on the email list.


### 10. Community Coordination Group Appointment


The IAB agreed to proceed with seeking feedback on the incumbent to the Community Coordination Group appointment. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for feedback message.


### 11. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-06-15 at 0700 PDT.


