
Minutes of the 2022-03-02 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Ben Campbell  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel (incoming IAB)  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Zhenbin Li  

Jared Mauch  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu (incoming IAB)  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)


##### Guests:


Sandy Ginoza (RFC Production Center)  

Tony Hansen (RSOC)  

John Levine (Temporary RFC Series Project Manager)  

Peter Saint-Andre (RSOC Chair)


##### Observers:


Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB that 2022-03-02 was the deadline for nominations for IAB Chair.


An executive session on RFC Series Consulting Editor Recruitment was added to the end of the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-02-16 business meeting – (posted 2022-02-16)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-02-23 business meeting and technical discussion – (posted 2022-02-23)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-02-16: Mirja Kühlewind to reach out to Eliot Lear to schedule a time for a meeting between the IAB and ISE.
* 2022-02-16: Cindy Morgan to reply to Francesca Palombini about the proposal to archive AUTH48 conversations.
* 2022-02-16: Wes Hardaker to draft response to Jay Daley on the proposal for RSCE recruitment committee and process.
* 2022-02-16: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the ISOC BoT Appointment.
* 2022-02-02: Russ White to review the PPM charter for the IESG (https://www.i1b.org/wiki/index.php/CharterReview).
* 2022-01-19: Wes Hardaker to draft text for the Plenary Planning Program webpage noting that while the Program has been closed, the IAB is still open to suggestions about topics that are worthy of broad-area discussion in the IETF.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
	+ Check back after next check-in with Liaison Managers (~2022-03).
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
* 2022-01-12: Deborah Brungard to report back to the IAB on ISOC planning for WTSA.
* 2022-02-23: All IAB to send Cullen Jennings suggestions on how to narrow the scope for a Metaverse workshop proposal.
* 2022-02-23: Cullen Jennings (with input from the IAB) to draft a Metaverse workshop proposal.


##### New:


* 2022-03-02: All IAB to sign up for BOF coverage at IETF 113.
* 2022-03-02: Peter Saint-Andre to reach out to Jay Daley regarding a possible extension to the Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract until the RSCE is seated. Based on that conversation, RSOC will make a recommendation to the IAB.
* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to draft a timeline and call for nominations for the RSWG Chair appointment(s).
* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to set up a Trello board to track RFC Editor Model transition actions.
* 2022-03-02: Cindy Morgan to update the timeline and text for the ICANN GWG call for nominations and send it out to the IAB for review.
* 2022-03-02: Mirja Kühlewind to draft a reply to Jay Daley’s email regarding RSCE recruitment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-11  

In Community Review (ends 2022-03-07)


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress <5 mins (Public)


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Privacy Preserving Measurement (PPM)  

Approved 2022-02-17 pending edits to be provided by the AD


### 2. BOF Coverage at IETF 113


Wiki: <https://www.iab.org/wiki/index.php/Bof113>


The IAB discussed BOF coverage at IETF 113.


* Computing-Aware Networking (CAN)  

IAB Shepherd: Zhenbin Li
	+ Russ White volunteered to cover this BOF.
* Media Over QUIC (MOQ)  

IAB Shepherd: Tommy Pauly
	+ Mirja Kühlewind volunteered to cover this BOF, conflicts permitting. After the meeting, it was discovered that MOQ conflicts with MAPRG, which Mirja is chairing, so the IAB still needs someone to cover this BOF.
* Source Address Validation in Intra-domain and Inter-domain Networks (SAVNET)  

IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko
	+ Jared Mauch volunteered to cover this BOF.


### 3. IAB Open Agenda at IETF 113


The IAB discussed the IAB Open Meeting agenda for IETF 113.


In addition to the normal chair reporting, Mirja Kühlewind suggested a discussion on (de)centralization, with presentations on “An Empirical View on Consolidation of the Web” from Vaibhav Bajpai, “Centralization and Internet Standards” from Mark Nottingham, and “Discovery Mechanism in Protocol Design” from Jari Arkko.


### 4. RFC Editor Model Transition Actions


Members of RSOC joined the IAB to discuss what needs to happen to ensure a smooth transition to the RFC Editor Model version 3 once draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model is approved.


Mirja Kühlewind said that the IAB is concerned with three aspects of the transition:


1. Winding down RSOC
2. Selecting the chairs for the RFC Series Working Group (RSWG)
3. Selecting the IAB representative for the RFC Series Advisory Board (RSAB).


Cindy Morgan will set up a Trello board to track actions related to the transition.


#### 4.1. Winding Down RSOC


Peter Saint-Andre reported that RSOC does not have any outstanding deliverables, but that RSOC has been working with Jay Daley on the authors.ietf.org site and John Levine on draft-iab-rfc7991bis. The authors.ietf.org site is expected to go live soon, and a new revision of draft-iab-rfc7991bis will be posted soon that brings the spec into line with the current code; further work on draft-iab-rfc7991bis will be handled in the RSWG.


RSOC convened the RFC XML and Style Guide Change Management Team (CMT), which initially worked through the backlog of issues relating to the XML vocabulary, but has also been advising the RFC Production Center (RPC) on issues with authors that relate to the XML. Disbanding RSOC also effectively will disband the CMT, and this responsibility will go to the RSAB. RSOC recommends that RSOC remain until the RSAB is seated and has its first meeting, where there will be a formal handover of responsibilities. At that point, RSOC will disband.


RSOC will write something up for the IAB that maps out how RSOC responsibilities will be handled in the new model.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the current Temporary RFC Series Project Manager contract ends on 2022-03-31, which is before a new RFC Series Consulting Editor (RSCE) will be in place, and asked RSOC for a recommendation about extending that contract. Peter Saint-Andre will follow up with Jay Daley and RSOC about making a recommendation to the IAB about extending the contract.


#### 4.2. Selection of RSWG Chairs


The IAB and IESG are each responsible for appointing one of the RSWG chairs, and agreed to run a single call for nominations. Cindy Morgan will draft a timeline and call for nominations for the RSWG chairs and send it to the IAB and IESG for review, with the goal of sending the call for nominations out before or during IETF 113.


#### 4.3. Selection of the IAB representative to the RSAB


Mirja Kühlewind suggested that the IAB take the question of the IAB representative on RSAB at the IAB meeting on 2022-03-20, which will be the first meeting of the new IAB term.


### 5. ICANN Governance Working Group


Ted Hardie, one of the IAB’s appointees to the ICANN RSS Governance Working Group, has asked to step down from the position. The IAB discussed the text for a call for nominations, as well as the timeline for the appointment.


Cindy Morgan will update the call for nominations text and send it out to the IAB for review, with the goal of sending the call for nominations on Monday, 2022-03-07.


### 6. Executive Session: RFC Series Consulting Editor (RSCE) Recruitment


The IAB discussed RSCE recruitment in an executive session. Mirja Kühlewind will draft a reply to Jay Daley’s email regarding RSCE recruitment.


