
Minutes of the 2022-04-13 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Mallory Knodel  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

David Schinazi


##### Observers:


Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to send their Conflict of Interest disclosures for 2022-2023 to the IAB list.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-04-06 business meeting – (posted 2022-04-06)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan to send call for feedback on GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan to start a thread on the IAB list asking for volunteers to interview GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan/Liaison Coordinators to find out if the ICANN NomCom incumbent is interest in serving for another year.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
	+ Check back after 2022 IAB Retreat


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2022-03-09: IAB to provide feedback on ISOC’s “IETF and policy makers – problem statement” document that came out of WTSA.
* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to add information about IAB workshops to the “IAB Lore for New Members” slide deck.
* 2022-03-09: Zhenbin Li to review the new version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.


##### New:


* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators to find out where liaison managers are having trouble accessing documents.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-04-13: All IAB to reach out to potential RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-04-13: Cindy Morgan to schedule interviews for the GWG appointment. (Interview team: Jari Arkko, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, Russ White, Jiankang Yao)
* 2022-04-13: Jari Arkko to start a document with potential questions for GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-13: Cindy Morgan to start e-vote on ICANN NomCom appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

IAB Stream
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: Edit


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


* No new initial charters in progress


### 2. Liaison Manager Discussions


Deborah Brungard, Wes Hardaker, and Tommy Pauly summarized recent discussions they had with IETF Liaison Managers.


Due to the logistics of scheduling, the Liaison Coordinators held two meetings with the Liaison Managers during the week of 2022-04-04. The first meeting had seven Liaison Managers attend, and the second had three.


The Liaison Managers agreed that having these meetings with the Liaison Coordinators every six months or so is helpful.


Other discussion topics included:


* Encouraging other SDOs to participate in IETF on cross-interest topics.
* Encouraging cross-SDO specification reviews and reuse of IETF technologies.
	+ This is difficult when the other SDO does not allow the Liaison Manager access to developing specifications because they are not a member of the SDO.
* The difficulties around representing IETF viewpoints when viewpoints are evolving/differing.


Mirja Kühlewind asked what the cases were where Liaison Managers don’t have access to developing specifications.


Tommy Pauly replied that it was mostly an issue in the ISO groups.


Mirja Kühlewind said that the IETF has a Category A liaison relationship with those groups, so they should have full access.


Cullen Jennings said that some Liaison Managers might not be aware of  

what access they are supposed to have.


Wes Hardaker noted that some of the ISO liaison relationships are actually managed through ISOC, which may be causing some confusion. The Liaison Coordinators will find out where Liaison Managers are having trouble accessing documents and see if they can help.


The Liaison Coordinators upcoming actions include:


* Finding a new Liaison Manager for ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6, as Allison Mankin would like to step down.
* Updating the list of people with access permissions to the Liaison Statements tool in the Datatracker.
* Organizing a list of potential candidates for Liaison Manager roles.


Tommy Pauly said it would be especially helpful to identify the liaison relationships where finding a new Liaison Manager will be difficult because there are not a lot of IETF people participating in the group.


Mirja Kühlewind agreed, saying that having an up-to-date list of who is active in other SDOs would be helpful. She added that it would also be helpful to document how the liaison roles work for each SDO.


The Liaison Coordinators will work with the Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.


### 3. Executive Session: RFC Series Working Group (RSWG) Chair Appointment


The IAB discussed candidates for the RFC Series Working Group (RSWG) Chair Appointment in an executive session.


### 4. Executive Session: Qualifications for ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG)


The IAB discussed the qualifications for the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


Jari Arkko, Cullen Jennings, Mirja Kühlewind, Russ White, and Jiankang Yao will interview the candidates.


Cindy Morgan will send out a Doodle poll to schedule the candidates’ interviews.


Jari Arkko will start a document with draft interview questions.


### 5. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IETF appointment to the ICANN NomCom was discussed in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote.


