
Minutes of the 2022-09-07 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Wes Hardaker  

David Schinazi


##### Guest:


Mark Nottingham


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


### 2. draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization


Mark Nottingham reported that he has reviewed the issues raised by Jari Arkko and Mirja Kühlewind on draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization, and he thinks they can be characterized as editorial.


Cullen Jennings said that it would be worth mentioning that the IETF has some history working with regulators, and pointed to CALEA and STIR/SHAKEN as examples. He suggested that Alissa Cooper might be able to provide more details.


Cullen Jennings also noted that the document needs to be careful that people don’t interpret it to say that the only way to deal with the problem is with regulation. Mark Nottingham agreed that it would be important to do a hostile reading of the document to make sure that it won’t be willfully misinterpreted.


Warren Kumari said that he is not sure what other message people would take from the document, unless there is some other external force that acts against centralizing behaviors.


Mark Nottingham said that the message is more nuanced than that. Regulation works best when there are multiple forces working together, like technical regulation, policy regulation, and market regulation.


Mallory Knodel said that she did not yet think the draft was ready for IAB adoption. She suggested that the section on centralization should include a sub-section that lists conditions that intentionally or unintentionally lead to centralization, without implying intent. She also suggested that more details be added to the section on decentralization about decentralized architectures that have been successful.


Tommy Pauly said that in some places, the terminology and framing don’t quite match up, and re-framing that might help with the issues Mallory Knodel raised.


Mallory Knodel will work with Mark Nottingham on an update to the draft and bring it back to the IAB.


### 3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved


* 2022-08-24 business meeting – (draft submitted 2022-08-24)


### 4. Action item review


#### Done:


* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-mnqeu-report.
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to announce the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee Appointment.
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to announce the ICANN Board Liaison Appointment.
* 2022-08-24: Jari Arkko to draft a note about the closure of the Model-T Program (to be sent by Cindy Morgan from the IAB EAM address).


#### In Progress:


* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-08-10: Warren Kumari and Wes Hardaker to confer on the next steps for discussions about an alternate DNS system (e.g. Design team, IAB Program, etc.)
* 2022-08-10: Russ White to draft a proposal for a workshop on BGP and routing security.
* 2022-08-24: Wes Hardaker to talk to Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf about a technical discussion to give the IAB an overview on the current state of alternate naming spaces (what the activities are and how they relate to each other; who the current players are). (Was: 2022-07-06: Warren Kumari to try and schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.)
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to close the Model-T mailing list (retaining the archives) once the Program closure has been announced.
* 2022-08-24: Lars Eggert to send out a pointer to the video of the Loon presentation at SIGCOMM (once it is available).
* 2022-08-24: Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko to draft a potential IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.


#### New:


* 2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.


### 5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor – AUTH48
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-04  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ended 2022-08-25)
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-08  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists  

\* Being discussed in RSWG


### 6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Media Over QUIC (moq)  

External Review (Initial Chartering)  

(Approved pending edits)
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (scitt)  

Draft Charter (Initial Chartering)
* Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (snac)  

Internal Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-09-08  

IAB Reviewer: Wes Hardaker


### 7. Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


Mallory Knodel reported that she started an outline of an IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security, noting the sections where the IAB might have something to say.


Mirja Kühlewind said that the response should both give pointers to the RFCs with architectural guidelines and note the places where those standards might be important.


Mallory Knodel said that the Federal Trade Commission is hosting a public forum on 2022-09-08 about the proposed rule.


A small group including Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko will meet on 2022-09-14 to draft text for the IAB to review at their meeting on 2022-09-21. Mirja Kühlewind and Russ White agreed to review the text.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-09-21 at 0700 PDT.


The small group working on the IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security will use the 2022-09-14 meeting slot to work on the text.


