
Minutes of the 2022-06-22 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mallory Knodel
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Sabrina Tanamal (IANA Liaison)
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Qin Wu
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)
* David Schinazi


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Several items on the agenda were reordered to accommodate partial conflicts with this meeting.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-06-15 business meeting – (posted 2022-06-15)


Cindy Morgan also asked the IAB to review the minutes from the IETF 114 BOF Coordination meeting.


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators to find out where liaison managers are having trouble accessing documents for their liaising SDO.
* 2022-05-11: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the SAT BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-20: Mirja Kühlewind and Tommy Pauly to progress the ISTS workshop proposal.
* 2022-05-20: Jari Arkko and Lars Eggert to progress the “Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems” workshop proposal.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications. (Goal: 2022-07-13)
* 2022-06-15: Jari Arkko to start a discussion about whether the IAB should pick up draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization on the IAB Stream.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-06-15: David Schinazi to work with Martin Thomson on a new revision to draft-iab-protocol-maintenance that incorporates the feedback received to date.


##### New:


* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to propose a note to add to draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model about the document being approved by an open process in the RFC Editor Future Development Program.
* 2022-06-22: Russ White to review the MIMI BOF request.
* 2022-06-22: Wes Hardaker to propose text for an IAB response to the proposal for SAC113 implementation.
* 2022-06-22: Mirja Kühlewind et al find a time slot for the ISTS Workshop, possibly around RIPE.
* 2022-06-22: Jari Arkko and Lars Eggert to finalize the Call for Papers text for the “Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop.”
* 2022-06-22: Jari Arkko to follow up with Rich Salz about the IAB Workshop on environmental impacts of the Internet.
* 2022-06-22: Karen O’Donoghue to finalize the initial ISOC members of the IAB-ISOC ASG.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to set up the IAB-ISOC ASG in the Datatracker.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to send out the call for volunteers for the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager position.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB Agenda at IETF 114 to include Sunday and Tuesday business meetings, in addition to the joint meetings with the IESG.
* 2022-06-22: Cindy Morgan to send out a call for feedback on the RZERC appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: Community Review ends 2022-06-28


Mirja Kühlewind asked that this be put on the next IAB business meeting agenda for approval.


* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-02  

IAB State: Active IAB Document


Wes Hardaker reported that he hopes to post new version of this in the next day or so, and then will ask the IAB to send this out for community review.


* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document


Jari Arkko reported that the authors are currently reviewing comments received and plan to post an update before the I-D submission deadline.


* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-07  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists


Tommy Pauly asked whether this document will move over to the Editorial Stream once the new RFC Editor Model is in place. Cindy Morgan replied that it would.


* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: AUTH48


The IAB agreed that the “IAB Members at the Time of Approval” should be added to the document, along with a note that the document was approved as part of an open process in the RFC Editor Future Development Program. Cindy Morgan will send text.


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* No new initial charters in progress


#### 1.7. IETF 114 BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/bofs/>


* JSON Web Proofs (JWP)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested
* Media Over QUIC (MOQ)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested
* Multicast Source Routing over IPv6 (MSR6)  

IAB Shepherds: Deborah Brungard, Russ White
* Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (SATP)  

IAB Shepherd: Wes Hardaker
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)  

IAB Shepherds: Jari Arkko, David Schinazi
* Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6 (SNAC)  

IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko, Russ White
* Transfer dIGital cREdentialS Securely (TIGRESS)  

IAB Shepherd: Not requested (placeholder for WG to be chartered)


In addition to the BOFs approved for IETF 114, Mallory Knodel noted that there was a late request for a BOF on “MIMI: More IM Interop.” Russ White agreed to review this for the IAB.


### 2. Proposal for SAC113 implementation


Wes Hardaker asked the IAB if they had any feedback on the ICANN Board’s proposal for SAC113 implementation. The IAB agreed to provide feedback; Wes Hardaker will propose text and send it to the IAB for review.


### 3. ISTS Workshop Proposal


The IAB agreed to proceed with the Workshop on In-network Support for Troubleshooting and Security (ISTS).


The IAB discussed whether the workshop should have an in-person component, and decided to wait to answer that until the they knew who would be participating.


The Program Committee will look for possible dates to hold the workshop, possibly around the RIPE meeting in October.


### 4. Measuring the Environmental Impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop Proposal


Jari Arkko presented a workshop proposal on “Measuring the Environmental Impact of Internet Applications and Systems.” The IAB agreed to proceed with the workshop proposal.


Tommy Pauly noted that Rich Salz sent email to the IAB asking about a workshop on this topic. Jari Arkko will follow up with Rich.


Jari Arkko and Lars Eggert will finalize the Call for Papers text for the “Measuring the environmental impact of Internet Applications and Systems Workshop” and send it to the IAB for review.


### 5. IAB-ISOC Policy Coordination Group


The IAB approved the formation of an IAB-ISOC Policy Coordination Administrative Support Group. Deborah Brungard and Karen O’Donoghue will be the co-leads. Lars Eggert, Mirja Kühlewind, Mallory Knodel, and Lars Eggert will also participate from the ISOC side. Karen O’Donoghue will finalize the list of members from the ISOC side and send them to the IAB.


### 6. ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager


The IAB approved the call for volunteers text for the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager position. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for volunteers.


### 7. IAB Agenda at IETF 114


In addition to the joint meetings with the IESG on Sunday and Friday, the IAB agreed to meet on Sunday afternoon and Tuesday morning at IETF 114.


### 8. Process for 2022 RZERC appointment


The IAB agreed to send a call for feedback on the RZERC incumbent.


### 9. Possible IAB Statement on Routing Security


This agenda item was deferred to a future IAB Business Meeting.


