
Minutes of the 2022-10-12 IAB Business Meeting:
-----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


None


##### Observers:


None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


An item about the proposed Indian telecommunications bill was added to the agenda, but later was deferred to email during the call.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-09-28 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2022-09-28)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-10-05 business meeting – (draft submitted 2022-10-05)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


2022-10-05: Wes Hardaker/Warren Kumari to invite Suzanne Woolf to the IAB’s Sunday meeting at IETF 115.


2022-10-05: Cindy Morgan to send an email to the IAB and IESG to coordinate the Sunday schedule at IETF 115.


2022-08-24: Wes Hardaker to talk to Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf about a technical discussion to give the IAB an overview on the current state of alternate naming spaces (what the activities are and how they relate to each other; who the current players are).


2022-08-10: Warren Kumari and Wes Hardaker to confer on the next steps for discussions about an alternate DNS system (e.g. Design team, IAB Program, etc.)


2022-08-10: Russ White to draft a proposal for a workshop on BGP and routing security.


##### On Hold until after IETF 115:


2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.


2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-10-05: All IAB to review the IDR workshop proposal.
* 2022-10-05: Liaison Coordinators to get a headcount for liaison managers who will join the in-person IAB Business Meeting on Tuesday at IETF 115.
* 2022-08-24: Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko to draft a potential IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.
* 2022-10-05: All IAB to review the draft response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security. (Deadline: 2022-10-12)
* 2022-10-05: Russ White to invite appropriate Routing area folks to the IAB’s Sunday meeting at IETF 115 to discuss the proposed IDR workshop.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ended 2022-08-25)
	+ Jari Arkko reported that there is a call scheduled to discuss the  
	
	next steps for this document.
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-08  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
	+ David Schinazi reported that the authors plan to upload a new  
	
	revision before the IETF 115 I-D submission deadline.
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists  

\* Being discussed in RSWG


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Application-aware Networking (APN)  

Internal Steering Group/IAB Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-10-20
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)  

Approved pending edits 2022-10-06


### 2. Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


The IAB reviewed the current draft of the IAB response to the FTC’s proposed “Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security” and made several live edits during the call.


Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko will make further updates to the text based on the discussion and send it to the IAB by 2022-10-14. The goal is for the IAB to approve the text by 2022-10-18. The deadline to submit comments to the FTC is 2022-10-21.


### 3. IAB Schedule at IETF 115


The IAB discussed their schedule for IETF 115. Currently, meetings are planned for Sunday afternoon, Tuesday morning, and Thursday morning. There will also be joint sessions with the IESG on Sunday and Friday.


The IAB was asked to propose agenda topics on the wiki. Currently, the IAB plans to discuss the IDR workshop on Sunday, meet with liaison managers on Tuesday, and discuss alternate DNS on Thursday. Colin Perkins is also trying to find out if a research group is available to be reviewed.


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether the IAB would be interested in having a half-day retreat on the Friday or Saturday before the meeting to discuss the Vision Statement for the Internet document. Most people would not be able to attend, but some might be available for dinner on Saturday night. Mirja Kühlewind will follow up.


### 4. M-TEN Workshop Update


Mirja Kühlewind reported that the workshop agenda has been posted. She asked that any IAB members who were planning to attend the workshop let her know so that they can be added to the mailing list.


### 5. Letter against proposed Telecommunications Bill in India


This topic was deferred to email.


### 6. Assigning IAB Shepherds to drafts


This topic was deferred to a future meeting.


### 7. IAB Document State Machine


This topic was deferred to a future meeting.


### 8. ISOC Board of Trustees Appointment


This topic was deferred to email.


### 9. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


This topic was deferred to email.


### 10. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2022-10-26.


