
Minutes of the 2022-02-02 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Ben Campbell
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Jared Mauch
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* David Schinazi
* Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)
* Martin Vigoureux (IESG Liaison)
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Mallory Knodel (incoming IAB)
* Zhenbin Li
* Qin Wu (incoming IAB)


##### Observers:


* Mark McFadden
* Daniel Migault


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No changes were made to the published agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-01-12 business meeting – (posted 2022-01-12)
* 2022-01-19 business meeting – (posted 2022-01-19)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-01-19: Wes Hardaker to send a message to the Plenary Planning Program about the closure of the Program.
* 2022-01-19: ISE Search Committee to send a summary of the candidates to the IAB.
* 2022-01-18: IAB to review draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-10.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
	+ Check back after next check-in with Liaison Managers (~2022-03).
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
* 2022-01-12: Deborah Brungard to report back to the IAB on ISOC planning for WTSA.
* 2022-01-19: Wes Hardaker to draft text for the Plenary Planning Program webpage noting that while the Program has been closed, the IAB is still open to suggestions about topics that are worthy of broad-area discussion in the IETF.


##### New:


* 2022-02-02: Russ White to review the PPM charter for the IESG (https://www.i1b.org/wiki/index.php/CharterReview).
* 2022-02-02: Cindy Morgan to coordinate with Lars Eggert to send out IETF Last Calls on draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter, draft-rosen-rfcefdp-update-2026, and draft-rsalz-2028bis at the same time as the IAB Call for Comments on draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfc-model.
* 2022-02-02: Cindy Morgan to send out an IAB Call for Comment on draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfc-model-11 (at the same time as the IETF Last Call on the related docs).
* 2022-02-02: Cindy Morgan to confirm that Mallory Knodel and Qin Wu can attend an IAB meeting on 2022-02-09 to go through the “IAB Lore for New Members” slides.
* 2022-02-02: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the Independent Submissions Editor appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/


* draft-arkko-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
	+ Jari Arkko reported that there have been weekly calls to go through  
	
	the issues on this document, and that he hopes to have a new revision  
	
	posted within the next two weeks.
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
	+ Wes Hardaker reported that he hopes to have a new revision posted  
	
	within the next week.
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
	+ Tommy Pauly reported that this draft was discussed at the EDM Program  
	
	meeting on 2022-02-01, and that David Schinazi will be working with  
	
	Martin Thomson on a new revision.
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-11  

Program Last Call ended 2022-01-30
	+ See item 2 below.


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


* Privacy Preserving Measurement (PPM)  

Internal Review (IESG Telechat: 2022-02-03)
	+ Russ White will review the PPM charter for the IESG.


#### 1.7. Proposed BOF Requests


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bof-requests


* bofreq-liu-multicast-source-routing-over-ipv6msr6-12  

Multicast Source Routing over IPv6
	+ Deborah Brungard and Russ White will shepherd this BOF request.
* bofreq-spinella-event-streaming-open-network-06  

Event Streaming Open Network
* bofreq-frindell-media-over-quic-00  

Media Over QUIC
	+ IAB Shepherd: Tommy Pauly
* bofreq-li-sav-for-intra-and-inter-domain-networks-01  

SAV for intra- and inter-domain networks
	+ IAB Shepherd: Jari Arkko
* bofreq-liu-computing-aware-networking-can-05  

Computing-Aware Networking (CAN)
	+ IAB Shepherd: Zhenbin Li


### 2. RFC Editor Model (Version 3)


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-11 out forcommunity review. The Call for Comments will be sent to the IETF-Announce, IRTF-Announce, RFC-Interest, Last-Call, and Architecture-Discuss lists. The reply-to field will be set to the RFCEd-Future and IAB lists.


The IAB Call for Comments on draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-11 will be coordinated with the IETF Last Calls for:


* draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter
* draft-rosen-rfcefdp-update-2026
* draft-rsalz-2028bis


Cindy Morgan will coordinate with Lars Eggert so that all of those review messages go out at the same time.


### 3. IAB Agenda at IETF 113


The IAB discussed their agenda for IETF 113, given that the meeting will be a hybrid model with approximately half of the IAB participating remotely.


The IAB agreed to hold their regular Sunday afternoon joint meeting with the IESG and regular Sunday afternoon IAB-only business meeting. The other business meetings that were traditionally held during the breakfast slots on Tuesday and Thursday will be taken as regular conference calls either before or after IETF 113.


### 4. Next IAB Meeting


The IAB agreed to use the 2022-02-09 reserve meeting slot to go through the “IAB Lore for New Members” slides, assuming that both Mallory Knodel and Qin Wu are available. Cindy Morgan will check with them to confirm that they will be able to attend; if they are not, the 2022-02-09 meeting will be canceled and the topic will be rescheduled for a time when both of the new incoming members are available.


### 5. Executive Session: Independent Submissions Editor Appointment


The Independent Submissions Editor appointment was discussed in an executive session. Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote to the IAB.


