
Minutes of the 2022-11-23 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Harald Alvestrand (ICANN Liaison)  

Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Sabrina Tanamal (IANA Liaison)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

David Schinazi


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Two new items were added to the agenda:


* E-Impact Workshop Update
* Executive Session: NomCom Liaison Update


### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-10-26 business meeting and technical discussion


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-11-06 business meeting (Sunday IETF 115)
* 2022-11-08 business meeting (Tuesday IETF 115)
* 2022-11-10 business meeting (Thursday IETF 115)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2022-11-06: Cindy Morgan to send a notice to architecture-discuss that the IAB is planning to discuss adoption of draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning at their 2022-12-07 meeting.
* 2022-08-24: Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko to draft a potential IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.


##### In Progress:


* 2022-11-08: Liaison Coordinators to look into email aliases for each liaising organization.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-11-06: All IAB to review draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration to determine whether it is ready for publication as an RFC. Deadline: 2022-12-07
* 2022-11-06: Jari Arkko to update draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle based on the IAB discussion at IETF 115.
* 2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.


##### New:


* 2022-11-23: Liaison Coordinators to add information about potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions to the private IAB wiki.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan & Liaison Coordinators to draft calls for volunteers for the liaison managers to 3GPP and IEEE 802.1.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to move the “IAB Review” Datatracker state to be after “Community Review.”
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to add iab@iab.org to the state change emails for IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to add an “IAB shepherd” field to the Datatracker for IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to start a thread to assign IAB shepherds to the existing IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to start an e-vote on the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle-03  

I-D Exists, IAB stream
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-02  

Community Review: Informational
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-09  

Active IAB Document
* draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning-00  

I-D Exists, IAB stream


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Application-aware Networking (APN)  

Internal Review
* Javascript Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE) 2022-10-25  

Internal Review Internal Review  

IESG Telechat: 2022-12-01
* RADIUS EXTensions (RADEXT)  

Draft Charter


### 2. Monthly Reports


#### 2.1. IANA Liaison Report


–Begin IANA Liaison Report, Sabrina Tanamal–



```
IANA Services Liaison Report – 23 November 2022
 
SLA Deliverables Update:
 
ICANN met 100% of processing goal times for the October 2022 monthly 
statistics report, exceeding the SLA goal to meet 90% of processing goal 
times. These times include the steps that ICANN has control over and not 
time it is waiting on requesters, document authors or other experts. 
Monthly reports can be found at:
 
https://www.iana.org/performance/ietf-statistics
 
Other News:
 
The IETF-IANA Group Meeting was held on 8 November 2022. Meeting minutes 
will be available at a future IAB Business meeting.
```

–End IANA Liaison Report, Sabrina Tanamal–


#### 2.2. IRTF Chair Report


–Begin IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–



```
IRTF Chair report to the IAB for the month ending 23 November 2022

Research Groups

Of the 14 research groups, 11 met during IETF 115. The remaining groups 
are either close to concluding (NWCRG) or meeting regularly in interim 
meetings.

Two side meetings at IETF 115 were held targeting potential new IRTF 
research groups on Usable Formal Methods and Research and Analysis of 
Internet Standards Processes. Both were successful, with strong 
attendance and interest. Expect charter proposals for review in the 
coming weeks.

ANRP

The award talks by Gautam Akiwate, Corinne Cath, and Daniel Wagner were 
very well received. Nominations for ANRP 2023 closed on 18 November, 
with 65 nominations received (compared to 59 last year and 76 the year 
before). The review process is starting now.

ANRW

Nothing to report

Documents and Errata

Waiting for IRTF Chair:

draft-irtf-pearg-censorship-06
draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties-06
draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge-07
draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv-01
  Awaiting IRSG Reviews:

(None)

IRSG Review:

draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-16
draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping-07
draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute-07
draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats-03
  Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys-04

  In IRSG Poll:

(None)

In IESG Review:

draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf-15
  IESG Conflict Review completed
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-10
  IESG Conflict Review completed
  Revised I-D Needed
draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-11
  IESG Conflict Review completed
  Revised I-D Needed

Sent to the RFC Editor:

draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-26
  Holding for references
draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-16
draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo-13
draft-irtf-qirg-principles-11

Other Activities

Four diversity travel grant awards were offered, of which three were 
able to attend.
```

–End IRTF Chair Report, Colin Perkins–


### 3. Finding new Liaison Managers


Eric Gray, the IEEE802.1 liaison manager, has retired. Gonzalo Camarillo, the 3GPP liaison manager, has asked to step down. The Liaison Coordinators proposed doing open calls for both of these liaison manager positions.


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether open calls were needed, or if the Liaison Coordinators could just reach out directly to potential candidates. She noted that she did not want to set a precedent that the IAB would do an open call for every liaison manager position.


Wes Hardaker said that the process for filling liaison manager positions is ad hoc and depends on the role. Tommy Pauly agreed, saying that he did not see this as setting a precedent. Deborah Brungard added that sending an open call for these particular positions might bring in volunteers who are not already part of the current IEEE 802 and 3GPP coordination groups.


Cindy Morgan will work with the Liaison Coordinators to draft calls for volunteers for the liaison managers to 3GPP and IEEE 802.1


### 4. Processing Errata for IAB-stream RFCs updated by RFC 9280


The IAB agreed to delegate handling errata for IAB-stream RFCs that were updated by RFC 9280 (RFC Editor Model, Version 3) to the RFC Series Approval Board (RSAB). The IAB stream manager will pass these errata to the RSAB appropriately.


### 5. IAB Document State Machine


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/help/state/draft/iab>


The IAB reviewed the current document state machine for IAB-stream documents in the Datatracker and discussed whether they wanted to make any changes.


The IAB agreed that the “IAB Review” state should come after the “Community Review” state. Cindy Morgan will ask the Tools Team to make that change.


The IAB also decided to ask that iab@iab.org be added to the list of addresses that are notified when an IAB-stream document changes its state. Cindy Morgan will pass that request along to the Tools Team.


### 6. Assigning IAB Shepherds to drafts


Mirja Kühlewind proposed that the IAB assign (non-author) shepherds to documents in the IAB stream for three reasons:


1. To have someone assigned to follow up with the authors and help them progress the document
2. To have someone responsible for reporting back on the status of the document to the IAB
3. To ensure that there is at least one non-author review of the document in the IAB.


The IAB agreed that this was a good idea. Cindy Morgan will follow up with the Tools Team and ask that an “IAB Shepherd” field be added to the Datatracker for IAB-stream documents. In the meantime, Cindy will start an email thread on the IAB list to assign shepherds to documents manually.


### 7. E-Impact Workshop Update


Jari Arkko reported that the E-Impact Workshop accepted 27 out of the 29 papers submitted and invited everyone who submitted a paper to attend. The workshop will have four sessions; scheduling those sessions is currently in progress.


### 8. Executive Session: ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB discussed the IETF appointment to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group. Cindy Morgan will send an e-vote.


### 9. Executive Session: NomCom Liaison Update


Cullen Jennings provided the IAB with a brief report on the 2022-2023 NomCom.


### 10. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-12-07.


