
Minutes of the 2022-05-11 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Wes Hardaker  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Tommy Pauly  

David Schinazi


##### Observers:


Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Items on “IAB Wiki and wiki.js” and “Archiving IAB-stream AUTH48 emails” were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-04-27 technical discussion – (posted 2022-04-27)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-05-04 business meeting – (posted 2022-05-04)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-05-04: Wes Hardaker to start a document with interview questions for the RSWG candidates.
* 2022-05-04: Mirja Kühlewind and Lars Eggert to update the retreat agenda.
* 2022-05-04: Russ White and Jari Arkko to reach out to the SNAC BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-04: Cindy Morgan to send out call for community feedback on RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-04-13: All IAB to reach out to potential RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-03-09: Zhenbin Li to review the new version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
	+ Check back after 2022 IAB Retreat


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators to find out where liaison managers are having trouble accessing documents.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-04-20: Mirja Kühlewind and the Liaison Coordinators to continue discussions on how to refine the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-04-20: Karen O’Donoghue to draft a description for an IAB-ISOC Administrative Support Group.
* 2022-05-04: Russ White to reach out to the MSR6 BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2022-05-04: Cindy Morgan to schedule RSWG Chair interviews.
* 2022-05-04: Wes Hardaker, Deborah Brungard, and Qin Wu to interview RSWG Chair candidates.
* 2022-05-04: Mirja Kühlewind to update the ISTS workshop proposal.


##### New:


* 2021-05-11: Wes Hardaker to reach out to the SAT BOF proponents and ADs re BOF shepherding.
* 2021-05-11: Mirja Kühlewind to post draft-iab-aid-workshop-01 to the I-D repository.
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan to send out a community review message for draft-iab-aid-workshop-01, once it is posted to the I-D repository.
* 2021-05-11: All IAB to provide a slide for the retreat on “What the IAB should be doing.”
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan (with Mirja Kühlewind) to send an email to the RFC Production Center about archiving IAB-stream AUTH48 emails.
* 2021-05-11: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the ICANN RSS GWG candidates and send an announcement.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-01  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-06  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

RFC Editor Queue: Edit


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/


* No new initial charters in progress


#### 1.7. Proposed BOFs


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bof-requests>


* bofreq-lemon-stub-network-auto-configuration-for-ipv6-03  

Stub Network Auto Configuration for IPv6  

IAB Reviewers: Russ White, Jari Arkko
* bofreq-liu-multicast-source-routing-over-ipv6msr6-12  

Multicast Source Routing over IPv6  

IAB Reviewer: Russ White
* bofreq-hardjono-secure-asset-transfer-protocol-04  

Secure Asset Transfer Protocol  

IAB Reviewer: Wes Hardaker


### 2. draft-iab-aid-workshop


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-aid-workshop out for community review. Mirja Kühlewind will post a -01 to the I-D repository that incorporates some editorial nits from GitHub. Once draft-iab-aid-workshop-01 is posted, Cindy Morgan will send the community review message.


### 3. 2022 Retreat


The IAB reviewed the agenda for the 2022 retreat. Mirja Kühlewind asked each IAB member to provide one slide on “What the IAB should be doing” for discussion at the retreat. She also asked that people leading discussion topics send their slides to the IAB list in advance so that people have time to review them before the meeting.


### 4. IAB Wiki and wiki.js


Lars Eggert reported that the Tools Team is working to integrate wiki.js with the Datatracker and move the existing trac wikis to wiki.js. He asked whether the IAB would want to move their mediawikis to wiki.js as well.


Mirja Kühlewind asked that discussion of this topic be postponed, as she is currently working on a project to archive some of the content on iab.org elsewhere (Datatracker, GitHub), and the wikis should be looked at as part of that project.


### 5. Archiving IAB-stream AUTH48 emails


Lars Eggert reported that the IESG sent an announcement about archiving AUTH48 emails for IETF-stream RFCs, and asked whether the IAB was planning to do the same.


Mirja Kühlewind replied that the IAB had previously agreed to include IAB-stream emails in this archive at their 2022-02-16 meeting. Cindy Morgan and Mirja Kühlewind will draft an announcement about this.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) Appointment


In an executive session, the IAB appointed Jim Reid to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group. Cindy Morgan will follow up with the candidates and send an announcement.


