
Minutes of the 2022-12-07 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Wes Hardaker  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Russ White  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Cullen Jennings  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)


##### Observers:


None


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-11-06 business meeting (Sunday IETF 115)
* 2022-11-08 business meeting (Tuesday IETF 115)
* 2022-11-23 business meeting – (draft submitted 2022-11-23)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-11-10 business meeting (Thursday IETF 115)


#### 1.4. Action Item Review


##### Done:


* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to move the “IAB Review” Datatracker state to be after “Community Review.”
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan & Liaison Coordinators to draft calls for volunteers for the liaison managers to 3GPP and IEEE 802.1.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to add iab@iab.org to the state change emails for IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to ask the Tools Team to add an “IAB shepherd” field to the Datatracker for IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-23: Cindy Morgan to start a thread to assign IAB shepherds to the existing IAB-stream documents.
* 2022-11-08: Liaison Coordinators to look into email aliases for each liaising organization.
* 2022-11-06: All IAB to review draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration to determine whether it is ready for publication as an RFC. Deadline: 2022-12-07


##### In Progress:


2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.


2022-11-06: Jari Arkko to update draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle based on the IAB discussion at IETF 115.


2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an  

update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and  

bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.


2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are  

important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.


2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications  

applications.


2022-11-23: Liaison Coordinators to add information about potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed  

positions to the private IAB wiki.


2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.


##### New:


* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to follow up on setting up email aliases for each liaising organization.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send a message to arch-d list about possible adoption of draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle  

once Jari Arkko updates the document and confirms that the message is ready to go.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-protocol-maintenance out for community review, including the edm list.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration to the RFC Editor pending a new revision from the  

authors.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send a call for volunteers for the 3GPP liaison manager position.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send a call for volunteers for the IEEE 802.1 liaison manager position.
* 2022-12-07: Cindy Morgan to send an announcement about the ICANN Technical Liaison Group appointment.
* 2022-12-07: Wes Hardaker to find out if his co-author on “The Challenges of Blockchain-Based Naming Systems for Malware  

Defenders” is available for a technical discussion at the 2022-12-14 IAB meeting.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle-03  

I-D Exists, IAB stream  

IAB Shepherd: Mirja Kühlewind
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-02  

IAB Review: Informational  

IAB Shepherd: N/A
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-10  

Active IAB Document  

IAB Shepherd: Tommy Pauly
	+ The IAB agreed that draft-iab-protocol-maintenance is ready for community review. Cindy Morgan will send the community review message, including the architecture-discuss and edm lists in the distribution.
* draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning-00  

I-D Exists, IAB stream  

IAB Shepherd: David Schinazi


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Application-aware Networking (APN)  

Internal Review (Initial Chartering)
* Javascript Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE)  

External Review (Initial Chartering, Reopening)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-12-15
* More Instant Messaging Interoperability (MIMI)  

Internal Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-12-15  

IAB Reviewer: David Schinazi
* RADIUS EXTensions (RADEXT)  

Draft Charter (Initial Chartering, Reopening)


### 2. draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration


The IAB approved draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration as an informational RFC pending a new revision from the authors. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC Editor once the authors confirm it is ready to go.


### 3. draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning


The IAB agreed to adopt draft-kpw-iab-privacy-partitioning on the IAB stream. David Schinazi will act as IAB shepherd for the document.


### 4. IAB Website Revamp


The IAB reviewed the current plan for the IAB website revamp and agreed to proceed. Cindy Morgan, Liz Flynn, and Mirja Kühlewind will work with Greg Wood, Jay Daley, and Robert Sparks on the next steps.


### 5. 3GPP Liaison Manager


The IAB approved the text for the call for volunteers for the 3GPP liaison manager position. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for volunteers.


### 6. IEEE 802.1 Liaison Manager


The IAB approved the text for the call for volunteers for the IEEE 802.1 liaison manager position. Cindy Morgan will send out the call for volunteers.


### 7. ICANN Technical Liaison Group Appointment


The IAB agreed to reappoint Warren Kumari to the ICANN Technical Liaison Group for an additional two years. Cindy Morgan will send an announcement.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2022-12-14 at 0700 PST.


