
Minutes of the 2022-07-24 IAB Business Meeting, Philadelphia
------------------------------------------------------------


### 0. Attendance


#### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Jay Daley  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Cullen Jennings  

Mallory Knodel  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


#### Regrets:


Wes Hardaker  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)


### 1. CCG Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB approved reappointing Tim Wicinski to the Community Coordination Group.


### 2. Approval of community review for draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration


The IAB agreed to send draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration out for community review. Cindy Morgan will send a community review announcement.


### 3. Approval of IAB workshop on sustainability


The IAB discussed the proposal for an IAB Workshop on Environmental Impact of Internet Applications and Systems and agreed that they are ready to proceed. Jari Arkko will update the call for papers based on the discussion and send it to the IAB.


### 4. Does the IAB need another retreat in fall?


Mirja Kühlewind asked whether the IAB should have another retreat later in 2022. The IAB responded that extra travel would be difficult and a better idea would be arriving early for IETF 115 to spend the Friday before the meeting working together, assuming there are appropriate topics for such an agenda. Mirja Kuehlewind will gather topics for a potential work day agenda.


### 5. General discussion about Internet architecture governance and coordination


The IAB discussed the article “[Revitalising Global Internet Governance](https://institute.global/policy/revitalising-global-internet-governance)” about the current gaps in Internet architecture governance.


Mirja Kühlewind noted that the lack of publicly visible overall strategy when it comes to Internet governance has led to actions being reactive rather than proactive, which makes it appear like the different parts of the ecosystem are not actually working together.


Cullen Jennings said that it would be good to describe how the Internet actually works, so that policy makers can understand the risks of some of their decisions.


Lars Eggert asked how the IAB can amplify their message more effectively to maximize their impact, and asked whether an IAB Program that was tasked with talking to regulators could make the IAB more visible in this space. Mirja Kühlewind replied that this is something that the IAB-ISOC Policy Coordination Group can work on, since ISOC already talks to regulators.


Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind took an action to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance, and what the risks are to those in the future.


### 6. draft-iab-protocol-maintenance


The IAB discussed draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.


Deborah Brungard objected to the current title of the document, saying that it is inflammatory. Mirja Kühlewind said that she had put in a pull request on that issue, as the current title, abstract, and introduction do not really match the rest of the document. The point is not that the robustness principle is bad, but that it has ramifications that should be considered.


The IAB agreed that there is more editorial work to be done on the document. The draft will also be discussed in the EDM Program meeting on 2022-07-28.


### 7. Update on ISOC Governance


Ted Hardie updated the IAB on the recent discussions about ISOC’s governance model in the [Governance Reform Working Group](https:// www.internetsociety.org/board-of-trustees/governance-reform-working- group-charter/).


Ted Hardie noted that one of the concerns is about the diversity of the ISOC Board of Trustees. Since the IAB appoints 4 of the 12 BoT members, Ted asked that the IAB consider diversity when making their appointments.


