
Minutes of the 2022-04-06 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Wes Hardaker  

Cullen Jennings  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

David Schinazi  

Amy Vezza (IETF Secretariat)  

Russ White  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Mallory Knodel  

Zhenbin Li  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)


##### Guests:


David Frautschy


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to return their conflict of interest disclosures.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-03-02 business meeting – (posted 2022-03-02)
* 2022-03-09 business meeting – (posted 2022-03-09)
* 2022-03-20 business meeting (IETF 113) – (posted 2022-03-25)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-03-09: Mirja Kühlewind to reach out to Peter Saint-Andre and the RFC Editor Future Development Program chairs about editorial changes to draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-12.
* 2022-03-09: Mirja Kühlewind to draft text for a note that indicates that the IAB endorses draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter.
* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to update the IAB calendar for 2022-2023.


##### OBE:


* 2022-02-23: Cullen Jennings (with input from the IAB) to draft a Metaverse workshop proposal.


##### On Hold:


* 2021-04-07: Wes Hardaker (with Cullen Jennings, Colin Perkins, and Russ White) to come up with a list of subjective tags that define common characteristics of good RFCs.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
	+ Check back after next check-in with Liaison Managers (~2022-03).
* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
	+ Sometime after IETF 113


##### In Progress:


* 2021-05-26: Russ White and Jared Mauch to review the IAB discussion on “The Internet of Three Protocols” and draft a problem statement to see if there is work that the IAB can do in this space.
* 2021-09-01: Jari Arkko to continue editing the document on the role of discovery in ensuring that Internet technology is broadly applicable.
* 2022-03-09: IAB to provide feedback on ISOC’s “IETF and policy makers – problem statement” document that came out of WTSA.
* 2022-03-09: Cindy Morgan to add information about IAB workshops to the “IAB Lore for New Members” slide deck.
* 2022-03-09: Zhenbin Li to review the new version of draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration


##### New:


* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan to send call for feedback on GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan to start a thread on the IAB list asking for volunteers to interview GWG candidates.
* 2022-04-06: Cindy Morgan/Liaison Coordinators to find out if the ICANN NomCom incumbent is interested in serving for another year.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-00  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-05  

IAB State: Active IAB Document (EXPIRED)
* draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-13  

Approved; To Be Sent to RFC Editor


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress <5 mins (Public)


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* No new initial charters in progress


### 2. Update on EU Digital Markets Act (DMA)


David Frautschy, Senior Director of European Government and Regulatory Affairs at Internet Society, joined the IAB to discuss the EU Digital Markets Act (DMA).


The DMA establishes a set of narrowly defined objective criteria for qualifying a large online platform as a so-called “gatekeeper.” Gatekeepers are platforms with a market capitalization of €75 billion, or turnover in the European Economic Area equal to or above €7.5 billion. In addition, gatekeepers should also have 45 million monthly end-users in the EU and 10,000 annual business users.


The DMA will establish obligations that gatekeepers must comply with in their daily operations, e.g.:


* allow third parties to inter-operate with the gatekeeper’s own services in certain specific situations
* allow their business users to access the data that they generate in their use of the gatekeeper’s platform
* provide companies advertising on their platform with the tools and information necessary for advertisers and publishers to carry out their own independent verification of their advertisements hosted by the gatekeeper
* allow their business users to promote their offer and conclude contracts with their customers outside the gatekeeper’s platform


The Internet Society provided recommendations for policy makers in the statement “[DMA and interoperability of encrypted messaging](https://www.internetsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/ISOC-EU-DMA-interoperability-encrypted-messaging-20220311.pdf).”


David Frautschy said that it is unclear whether the DMA will foster competition between companies to ensure end-to-end encryption, or whether it will break encryption entirely.


Mirja Kühlewind asked if there is anything the IAB can do to help here. She noted that the topic came up during the Dispatch session at IETF 113, and there will likely be a BOF proposal on this topic for IETF 114.


Cullen Jennings said that people on the IAB might know people who are involved with this, and it would be helpful if the IAB or IETF could bring those people together to talk about what the possible outcomes might be.


Mirja Kühlewind asked IAB members to reach out to contacts who might be working working on this, and bring this topic back for more discussion at a future IAB meeting.


### 3. Response to FCC Request for Comments on Secure Internet Routing


After a live editing session, the IAB approved the text for the IAB response to the FCC Request for Comments on Secure Internet Routing pending an editorial check to be completed by Greg Wood.


Lars Eggert will add a management item to the 2022-04-07 IESG Telechat to finalize discussion of this topic on the IESG side.


Mirja Kühlewind will submit the IAB’s comments on Friday, 2022-04-08.


### 4. Electronic Identification, Authentication and Trust (eIDAS) Regulation


Several IAB members agreed to sign on as individuals to a letter from Vint Cerf about the Electronic Identification, Authentication and Trust (eIDAS) Regulation.


The IAB agreed to make a brief statement on “Mandated Browser Root Certificates in the European Union’s eIDAS Regulation on the Internet” and post it to the IAB website once the letter from Vint Cerf is published.


### 5. RFC Series Working Group (RSWG) Chair Appointment


Cindy Morgan noted that the deadline for nominations for the RFC Series Working Group (RSWG) Chair appointment is 2022-04-18. Currently there is one candidate. Between the IAB and the IESG, there are two positions to fill.


### 6. Executive Session: ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN Root Server System Governance Working Group (GWG) in an executive session.


### 7. Executive Session: ICANN NomCom Appointment


The IAB discussed the appointment to the ICANN NomCom in an executive session.


### 8. Next IAB Meeting


The Next IAB Meeting will be on 2022-04-13 at 0700 PDT.


