
Minutes of the 2022-08-24 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


* Jari Arkko
* Deborah Brungard
* Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)
* Wes Hardaker
* Cullen Jennings
* Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)
* Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)
* Zhenbin Li
* Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)
* Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)
* Tommy Pauly
* Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
* Russ White
* Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)
* Qin Wu
* Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


* Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
* Mallory Knodel
* David Schinazi


##### Observers:


* Elmar Bins
* Rob Carolina
* Prasenjit Manna
* Victoria Risk


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


Cindy Morgan reminded the IAB to fill out the poll to select a time for the IETF 115 BOF Coordination call with the IESG.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-07-24 business meeting – Sunday IETF 114 – (posted 2022-08-08)
* 2022-07-26 business meeting – Tuesday IETF 114 – (posted 2022-08-08)
* 2022-08-10 business meeting – (posted 2022-08-10)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-08-10: Cindy Morgan to follow up with Mark Nottingham about whether the current version of draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization is the one the IAB should review for the discussion about adoption on the IAB stream, and whether he is available to have that discussion at the 2022-09-07 meeting.
* 2022-08-10: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the ICANN Board Liaison Appointment.
* 2022-08-10: Cindy Morgan to send an e-vote on the RZERC Appointment.
* 2022-08-10: Jari Arkko to send a message to the Model-T Program indicating that the IAB is planning to close the Program.
* 2022-07-26: Cindy Morgan to send a message to architecture-discuss that the IAB is considering adoption of draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-08-10: Warren Kumari and Wes Hardaker to confer on the next steps for discussions about an alternate DNS system (e.g. Design team, IAB Program, etc.)
* 2022-08-10: Russ White to draft a proposal for a workshop on BGP and routing security.


##### Updated:


* 2022-08-24: Wes Hardaker to talk to Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf about a technical discussion to give the IAB an overview on the current state of alternate naming spaces (what the activities are and how they relate to each other; who the current players are). (Was: 2022-07-06: Warren Kumari to try and schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.)


##### New:


* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to send an approval announcement for draft-iab-mnqeu-report.
* 2022-08-24: Jari Arkko to draft a note about the closure of the Model-T Program (to be sent by Cindy Morgan from the IAB EAM address).
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to close the Model-T mailing list (retaining the archives) once the Program closure has been announced.
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to announce the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee Appointment.
* 2022-08-24: Cindy Morgan to announce the ICANN Board Liaison Appointment.
* 2022-08-24: Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko to draft a potential IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.
* 2022-08-24: Lars Eggert to send out a pointer to the video of the Loon presentation at SIGCOMM (once it is available).


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-aid-workshop-01  

IAB State: AUTH48
* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-04  

IAB State: Community Review (ended 2022-07-27)
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ends 2022-08-25)
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-08  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists  

\* Being discussed in RSWG


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* NomCom Eligibility Update (elegy)  

External Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-08-25
* Media Over QUIC (moq)  

Internal Steering Group/IAB Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-08-25
* Revise Universally Unique Identifier Definitions (uuidrev)  

Internal Steering Group/IAB Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-08-25


### 2. draft-iab-mnqeu-report


The IAB approved publication of draft-iab-mnqeu-report-04 as an Informational RFC on the IAB Stream. Cindy Morgan will send the document to the RFC Editor.


### 3. Model-T Program


Jari Arkko reported that he had not received any feedback from the Model-T list about the message he sent on 2022-08-14 that the IAB was considering closing the Program.


The IAB agreed to close the Model-T Program.


Jari Arkko will draft a closure message that Cindy Morgan will send on behalf of the IAB. The mailing list will be closed.


### 4. ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC) Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB approved reappointing Tim April to the ICANN Root Zone Evolution Review Committee (RZERC). Cindy Morgan will follow up with Tim and send an announcement.


### 5. ICANN Board Liaison Appointment


Via e-vote, the IAB approved reappointing Harald Alvestrand as the IETF Liaison to the ICANN Board of Directors. Cindy Morgan will follow up with Harald and send an announcement.


### 6. M-TEN Workshop Update


Cindy Morgan reported that the call for papers for the M-TEN workshop closed on 2022-08-19, with 19 papers received. The Program Committee will meet on 2022-08-31 to review the papers and discuss invitations.


### 7. Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


The IAB discussed whether they should submit comments on the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.


Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko will review the proposal and draft a potential IAB response.


### 8. Future IAB Technical Discussions


The IAB reviewed the list of potential topics for future technical discussions.


The IAB agreed to remove “The Role of Interoperable Applications” from the list, but possibly investigate the topic further in the IAB-ISOC Policy Coordination Group.


A technical discussion on “Data Privacy” led by Tommy Pauly and Mirja Kühlewind was scheduled for 2022-09-28.


A technical discussion on “Different or Same, IP for Internet and Limited Domain” led by Zhenbin Li was scheduled for 2022-10-26.


The IAB discussed what they would like to get out of a technical discussion on an alternate DNS system, and agreed that it would be helpful to get an overview of the current state of alternate naming spaces, what the activities are, how they relate to each other, and who the current players are. Wes Hardaker will follow up with Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf to try and put together something on this topic.


Cullen Jennings reported that he is still trying to schedule a speaker on “Identity management for web conferencing and other media apps,” and that he will follow up with Cindy Morgan to schedule this when he has more information.


Lars Eggert noted that there was a presentation from Loon at ACM SIGCOMM that might be of interest to the IAB or IETF as a plenary topic. Lars will send out a link to the video of this session, once it becomes available.


### 9. Next IAB Meeting


The Next IAB meeting will be on 2022-09-07 at 0700 PDT.


