
Minutes of the 2022-10-05 IAB Business Meeting
----------------------------------------------


### 1. Administrivia


#### 1.1. Attendance


##### Present:


Jari Arkko  

Deborah Brungard  

Lars Eggert (IETF Chair)  

Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)  

Wes Hardaker  

Mallory Knodel  

Warren Kumari (IESG Liaison)  

Zhenbin Li  

Cindy Morgan (IAB Executive Administrative Manager)  

Karen O’Donoghue (ISOC Liaison)  

Tommy Pauly  

Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)  

Russ White  

Qin Wu  

Jiankang Yao


##### Regrets:


Cullen Jennings  

Mirja Kühlewind (IAB Chair)  

David Schinazi  

Greg Wood (IETF Director of Communications and Operations)


##### Observers:


Mark McFadden


#### 1.2. Agenda bash and announcements


No new items were added to the agenda.


#### 1.3. Meeting Minutes


The following meeting minutes were approved:


* 2022-09-21 business meeting – (draft submitted 2022-09-21)


The following meeting minutes remain under review:


* 2022-09-28 technical discussion – (draft submitted 2022-09-28)


#### 1.4. Action item review


##### Done:


* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to put in a session request for IABOPEN at IETF 115.
* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to close the RSOC mailing lists.
* 2022-09-21: Cindy Morgan to follow up with the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC6 Liaison Manager candidate.


##### In Progress:


* 2021-11-17: Mirja Kühlewind and Cindy Morgan to put together some options for the IAB Website revamp for the IAB to review.
* 2021-09-08: Liaison Coordinators to come up with a list of potential candidates to reach out to for future IAB-appointed positions.
* 2022-04-13: Liaison Coordinators/Liaison Managers to document how the liaison role works for their respective SDOs.
* 2022-06-15: Mirja Kühlewind to check with Robert Sparks/Tools Team on how to document the proposed changes to the liaison tool and approval process.
* 2022-05-20: Cullen Jennings to look into a possible IAB Technical Discussion on Internet user identity in Internet communications applications.
* 2022-07-24: Mallory Knodel and Mirja Kühlewind to draft a document outlining the architectural principles that the IAB thinks are important and need to be understood when considering Internet governance.
* 2022-08-10: Warren Kumari and Wes Hardaker to confer on the next steps for discussions about an alternate DNS system (e.g. Design team, IAB Program, etc.)
* 2022-08-10: Russ White to draft a proposal for a workshop on BGP and routing security.
* 2022-08-24: Wes Hardaker to talk to Warren Kumari and Suzanne Woolf about a technical discussion to give the IAB an overview on the current state of alternate naming spaces (what the activities are and how they relate to each other; who the current players are). (Was: 2022-07-06: Warren Kumari to try and schedule a tech talk with Suzanne Woolf on an alternate DNS system.)
* 2022-08-24: Mallory Knodel and Jari Arkko to draft a potential IAB response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security.
* 2022-09-07: Mallory Knodel to work with Mark Nottingham on an update to draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization and bring it back to the IAB to discuss adoption.


##### New:


* 2022-10-05: All IAB to review the draft response to the proposed Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security. (Deadline: 2022-10-12)
* 2022-10-05: All IAB to review the IDR workshop proposal.
* 2022-10-05: Liaison Coordinators to get a headcount for liaison managers who will join the in-person IAB Business Meeting on Tuesday at IETF 115.
* 2022-10-05: Cindy Morgan to send an email to the IAB and IESG to coordinate the Sunday schedule at IETF 115.
* 2022-10-05: Wes Hardaker/Warren Kumari to invite Suzanne Woolf to the IAB’s Sunday meeting at IETF 115.
* 2022-10-05: Russ White to invite appropriate Routing area folks to the IAB’s Sunday meeting at IETF 115 to discuss the proposed IDR workshop.


#### 1.5. IAB Document Status Update


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/stream/iab/>


* draft-iab-mnqeu-report-04  

IAB State: Sent to RFC Editor – AUTH48
* draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration-01  

IAB State: Community Review (ended 2022-08-25)
* draft-iab-protocol-maintenance-08  

IAB State: Active IAB Document
* draft-iab-rfc7991bis-04  

I-D Exists  

\* Being discussed in RSWG


#### 1.6. WG Chartering in Progress


Datatracker: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/chartering/>


* Application-aware Networking (APN)  

Internal Steering Group/IAB Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-10-06
* Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT)  

External Review (Initial Chartering)  

IESG Telechat: 2022-10-06


### 2. Trade Regulation Rule on Commercial Surveillance and Data Security


Mallory Knodel asked the IAB to review the current draft of the IAB response to the FTC’s proposed trade regulation rule on commercial surveillance and data security. The current goal is for the IAB to approve the text at their meeting on 2022-10-12 and have the response posted by 2022-10-14.


### 3. IDR Workshop Proposal


Russ White sent out a problem statement and proposal for a workshop on inter-domain routing.


Colin Perkins said that the current proposal looks fairly open-ended and that he wasn’t sure what the scope of the workshop would be.


Russ White replied that he was thinking that the scope would specifically be inter-domain routing, rather than adding more things to BGP.


Jari Arkko said that he thinks this is an important topic for the IAB to consider, and that he also has concerns about the scope. He noted that the IAB held a Routing and Addressing Workshop in 2006 that was framed as “the sky is falling,” and it would be more helpful to frame the discussion in a way such that it doesn’t prevent people from wanting to work on the problem.


Russ White asked the IAB to provide comments or make pull requests against the current proposal. Based on that feedback, he will refine the text and bring it back to the IAB to discuss the next steps.


### 4. IAB Schedule at IETF 115


The IAB discussed their meeting schedule for IETF 115.


Since a number of people in North America will be remote for IETF 115, the IAB would prefer to use the afternoon meeting slot on Sunday. Cindy Morgan will send an email to coordinate this with the IESG.


The liaison managers have been invited to join the Tuesday morning meeting.


The IAB discussed potential topics for the Sunday session, including the IDR workshop proposal and DNS/alternate name spaces.


### 5. M-TEN Workshop Update


Jari Arkko asked if IAB members who did not submit position papers could still attend the workshop. The IAB agreed that would be fine.


### 6. Next IAB Meeting


The next IAB meeting will be on 2022-10-12 at 0700 PDT.


The IAB will not have a regular business meeting on 2022-10-19, as this conflicts with the M-TEN Workshop.


